



[Illustration:

_Vol. =III.=_

_of the_
Botanists Repository

_Comprising,
Colour’d Engravings_

of
_New and Rare Plants_
ONLY
With Botanical Descriptions, &c.

----_in_----

_Latin and English,
after the_
Linnæan System.

_by
H. Andrews_

_Botanical Painter Engraver &c._
]




PLATE CXLV.

HILLIA LONGIFLORA.

_Long-Flowered Hillia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium hexaphyllum; foliolis oblongis, acutis, erectis.

COROLLA monopetala; tubus cylindricus, longissimus; limbus sexfidus;
laciniis oblongis, planis.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, brevissima. Antheræ oblongæ, erectæ, intra
faucem corollæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, oblongum, obsolete hexagonum. Stylus
filiformis, longitudine tubi. Stigma capitatum.

PERICARPIUM oblongum, compressum, biloculare.

SEMINA numerosa, minima.

EMPALEMENT. Cup six-leaved; leaflets oblong, sharp pointed and upright.

BLOSSOM one petal, tube cylindrical, very long; border six-cleft;
segments oblong, flat.

CHIVES. Threads six very short. Tips oblong, upright, within the mouth
of the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath oblong, slightly six-sided. Shaft
thread-shaped, the length of the tube. Summit headed.

SEED-VESSEL oblong, flattened and two celled.

SEEDS many, very small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hillia corollis sexfidis, laciniis lanceolatis, supra convexis; foliis
ovatis, acutis, glabris.

Hillia with blossoms six cleft, segments lance-shaped, convex above;
leaves egg-shaped, pointed and smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower cut open, to expose the number and situation of the Chives.

2. The Shaft and its summit, natural size, placed by the flower, to shew
its proportional length to the tube.

3. The Seed-bud, with the leaflets of the Empalement attached, cut
transversely, to shew the division of the cells in the center.

This species of Hillia was first introduced to our gardens in the year
1789, from the Island of Barbadoes, sent in plants, by Mr. J. Elcock, to
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. Originally this shrub was
specifically termed, _parasitica_ by professor Jacquin, when he first
formed, and titled the Genus, after Dr. J. Hill, of voluminous memory;
from a supposition that it was to be found growing, only, upon some
other plant; a circumstance, which being denied by Swartz, he has
altered it to _longiflora_. We have followed the latter name that ours
may go in unison with the author of the last Species plantarum now
publishing by Willdenow, as well as professor Martyn, who in his edition
of Miller’s Dictionary has followed Swartz; they appearing to be the
most accurate, as well as the most read and followed of any modern
Botanical authorities. It is a tender hot-house plant, strikes easily
from cuttings, thrives in rich mould and flowers about the end of
February. To the Right Hon. Lord Viscount Valentia we are indebted, for
the specimen from which our figure was taken, sent from his Lordship’s
famed collection at Arley near Bewdley, Staffordshire; where, we
believe, it has flowered for the first time in England.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLVI.

PSORALEA ACULEATA.

_Prickly Psoralea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tuberculis punctatum, quinquesidum;
laciniis acutis, æqualibus, persistentibus; infima duplo longiore.

COROLLA papilionacea, pentapetala.

_Vexillum_ subrotundum, emarginatum, assurgens.

_Alœ_ lunulatæ, obtusæ, parvæ.

_Carina_ dipetala, lunulata, obtusa.

STAMINA. Filamenta diadelpha (simplex setaceum et novem coalita),
adscendentia. Antheræ subrotundæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen lineare. Stylus subulatus, adscendens, longitudine
staminum. Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen longitudine calycis, compressum, adscendens,
acuminatum.

SEMEN unicum, reniforme.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, dotted over with small tubercles, and
five-cleft; the segments equal and remaining, the lower one twice the
length of the others.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped, five petalled.

_Standard_ nearly round, notched at the end, turned upwards.

_Wings_ half-moon-shaped, obtuse, small.

_Keel_ two-petalled, half-moon-shaped, obtuse.

CHIVES. Threads in two sets (a single one like a bristle, and nine
united), ascending. Tips nearly round.

POINTAL. Seed-bud linear. Shaft awl-shaped, ascending, the length of the
chives. Summit blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. A pod the length of the cup, flattened, ascending, and
tapered to the point.

SEED, one, kidney-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Psoralea foliis ternatis, minimis, confertissimis, recurvatis, in
spinulam desinentibus.

Psoralea with three-leafletted leaves, very small, very crowded, bent
back, and ending in a small spine.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Standard of a Blossom.

3. One of the Wings of the same.

4. The two Petals of the Keel.

5. The Chives, a little magnified.


The Prickly Psoralea is not a new plant in our collections; for, it was
first introduced by Mr. F. Masson to the Royal Gardens at Kew, as we
learn from the Catalogue, in the year 1774. But although so long a
sojourner with us, it is not found in many collections, owing to the
difficulty in its increase, as it seldom ripens its seeds; and cuttings,
the only remaining method, but seldom succeed; although by taking them
from a vigorous growing plant and giving them the assistance of the
bark-bed of the hothouse, early in March, a few plants have been
procured occasionally. Our drawing was made from a most beautiful plant
in the Clapham Collection, last year, in the month of August.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLVII.

GLADIOLUS CUSPIDATUS.

_Spear-spotted Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS. Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis lineari-ensiformibus, glabris; corolla ringente;
laciniis longissimis, acuminatis, undulatis, subæqualibus, tribus
inferioribus in medio macula oblonga notatis.

Gladiolus with leaves that are linearly sword-shaped and smooth; blossom
gaping; segments very long, tapered to the point, waved and nearly
equal, the three lower in the middle have an oblong spot.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A blossom cut open, with the Chives remaining attached.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.


The Gladiolus here figured, represents a variety of one of the most
errant species of the Genus, known commonly by the name of Spade
Gladiolus, and of which we have drawings of eight, quite distinct; yet
all, unquestionably, originating in one common parent. It was introduced
in 1796, from the Cape of Good Hope, by Mr. R. Williams, nurseryman of
Turnham-green, near Brentford; is a very hardy greenhouse bulb,
increases from the root in abundance, if planted in very sandy peat
earth, and flowers about the Month of April, or May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLVIII.

LACHENALIA QUADRICOLOR.

_Four-coloured Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COR. 6-petala, infera; petalis 3 interioribus longioribus. Stamina
erecta. Capsula subovata, trialata. Semina globosa.

BLOSS. 6-petals, beneath; the three inner petals the longest. Chives
erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three winged. Seeds globular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia foliis geminis, lineari-lanceolatis; scapo erecto; corollis
propendulis, cylindricis, quadricoloratis, cum limbo petalorum
interiorum patulo.

Lachenalia with leaves in pairs, linearly lance-shaped; flower-stem
erect; blossoms hanging down, cylindrical, and four-coloured, with the
border of inner petals spreading out.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut open, with the Chives remaining.

2. An inner Petal, with its Chive, shewn from the inside.

3. An outer Petal, shewn from the outside.

4. The Pointal complete.


About the year 1789, this very handsome species of Lachenalia was first
received by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, from the Cape of Good
Hope, sent in bulbs to them by J. Pringle, Esq. It is as hardy as the L.
tricolor, to which it much inclines, well known to collectors, and is
equally easily propagated; an excellent figure of which is to be found,
in the 82d Plate of the Botanical Magazine of Mr. Curtis. The L.
quadricolor is given as a synonym by Willdenow to L. pendula, a plant we
have already figured, and from which this stands quite distinct in the
conformation of every part; they are both to be found in the 2d Vol. of
Icon. of Jacquin, from whom we copy our specific title, the pendula, t.
400, the quadricolor, t. 396.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXLIX.

STRUTHIOLA CILIATA

_Fringed-leaved Struthiola._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

PERIANTHIUM diphyllum. Corolla tubulosa, 4-fida; Nectarium, glandulæ
octo fauci circumpositæ. Semen unum, subbaccatum.

CUP two-leaved. Blossom tubular, 4-cleft; Honey-cup, 8 glands placed
round the mouth of the blossom. One seed like a berry.

See STRUTHIOLA IMBRICATA, Pl. CXIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Struthiola foliis ovato-lanceolatis, mucronatis, ciliatis, concavis,
quadrifariam imbricatis, apice incurvis; corolla subalbida.

Struthiola with leaves between egg and lance-shaped, pointed, fringed,
concave, tiled in four rows, turned inwards at the point; blossom
whitish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A leaf shewn side-ways that the incurvature of the upper part may be
seen.

2. A flower complete.

3. The two leaves of the Empalement, magnified.

4. A blossom cut open, to expose the situation of the chives, at the
mouth of the tube, magnified.

5. The Pointal, a little magnified.


This is the variety of Struthiola ciliata promised in the last number.
It varies from the other in the largeness and incurvation of the leaves,
and colour of the flower, as well as, in the growth of the plant; in
this, the stem rises to three feet; in that, it seldom exceeds one. With
rather less difficulty it is increased and preferred than the red
variety, and makes a very handsome figured plant, flowering in the month
of August, at which season, last year, our drawing was taken from a
plant in the Hibbertian Collection. This Var. has the advantage of the
other, in having the blossoms extremely fragrant, in the evening.

[Illustration]




PLATE CL.

GERANIUM PRÆMORSUM.

_Bitten-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. Syst. Veg. 1781._

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

One Pointal. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis inciso-lobatis, reniformibus; lobis cuneiformibus,
præmorsis; floribus subsolitariis, heptaudris; caule flexuoso,
subcarnoso.

Geranium with leaves deeply cut into lobes and kidney-shaped; lobes
wedge-shaped, and bitten at the ends; flowers generally solitary, with
seven fertile tips; stem grows zig-zag, rather fleshy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives spread open.

4. The Pointal and Seed bud.


The Geranium præmorsum offers a most beautiful addition to this already
very extensive genus, but is without doubt a true species. It is a
native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was introduced to us, from thence,
in the year 1798, by Captain Quarrel; brought in seed, and communicated
to Mr. J. Colville of the King’s Road, Chelsea; who informs us, that it
flowers from March, till November, that he keeps it in rich dungy earth,
and that it is raised, pretty freely, by cuttings; requiring the heat of
a dry stove in the winter months. Our figure was made at the nursery,
Chelsea, about the beginning of March this year.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLI.

PITTOSPORUM CORIACEUM

_Thick-leaved Pittosporum._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, inserum, deciduum.

COROLLA. Petala quinque; ungues concavi, in tubum urceolatum
conniventes; laminæ ovato-oblongæ, patentes.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, receptaculo inserta. Antheræ
sagittatæ, erectæ, filamentis dorso affixæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, superum, compressum. Stylus brevissimus,
cylindricus. Stigma capitatum, planum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca subglobosa, 2-5 locularis, 2-5 valvis; loculamentis
pulpa resinosa scatentibus; dissepimenta valvulis contraria.

SEMINA, tria seu quatuor, angulata, oblonga, obtusa, ossea.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved, beneath, and falling off.

BLOSSOM. Five petals; claws concave, closing into a tube pitcher-shaped;
the borders oblong egg shaped, spreading.

CHIVES. Threads five, awl-shaped, inserted into the receptacle. Tips
arrow shaped, upright, fixed by the back to the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, above, flattened. Shaft very short,
cylindrical. Summit headed, flat.

SEED VESSEL. A roundish berry 2-5 cells, 2-5 valves; the cells filled
with a resinous pulp; partitions contrary to the valves.

SEEDS, three or four, angulated, oblong, obtuse, and bony.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pittosporum foliis ovalibus, obtusis, glaberrimis, coriaceis,
integerrimis.

Pittosporum with oval leaves, blunt ended, very smooth, leathery, and
quite entire.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Petal of the Blossom.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Pointal separated from the Chives.

5. A Berry of the size when ripe.


About the year 1763, this plant was first raised in Britain, from seeds
which had been received from the Island of Madeira, by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith. It forms one of the most decorative and
conspicuous plants, either in the Conservatory, or Green-house; and if
encouraged in its growth, by being planted in the border of the one; or
kept in rich earth, in a large pot in the other, will attain the height
of from 6 to 8 feet. The finest specimen we believe, in England, of this
plant is to be found in the elegant Conservatory of the Right Honourable
Lord R. Spencer, Woolbedding, Sussex. The flowers, which grow in
clusters from the ends of the branches in May, have the flavour of
Jasmine; but are rather transitory. It is propagated but slowly and with
difficulty, as it does not perfect its seeds with us, and it is not to
be increased by laying: the only method is cuttings, which should be
taken whilst very young and tender from the plant, about April, and put
from 6 to 8 in a pot, fixed very tight, in stiffish loam; they must
remain under a hand-glass on a shady border till Autumn, when they may
be removed into the hot-house and plunged into the bark bed, where they
will begin to grow the ensuing spring.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLII.

GERANIUM SPATHULATUM.

_Spatula-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. Syst. Veg. 1781._

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

One Pointal. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

GERANIUM foliis integerrimis, spathulatis, glabris, obtusis,
radicalibus; calycibus monophyllis; staminibus quinque fertilibus;
radice tuberosa.

GERANIUM with quite entire leaves, spatula-shaped, smooth, blunt, and
growing from the root; cups one-leaved; five fertile chives; root
tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its hollow structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal natural size.

3. The Chives spread open, to shew the number and situation of the
fertile ones, which are alternate.

4. The Pointal magnified.


The greater number of Geraniums which have been introduced of late, are
of the tuberous herbaceous kind; drawings of 14 we have, independent of
those already figured; constituting a distinguished, and distinct
natural branch of this extensive family. For the most part, they have
only five fertile chives with tubular empalements, some only two, and
others seven, with the footstalk of the flower solid up to the bottom of
the cup. This species is as yet, we believe, only in the Hibbertian
Collection, Clapham, where our drawing was taken in April this year. The
roots had been received in the autumn of 1800 from the Cape. It appears
to require the same management as G. punctatum, and like it, may be
increased by the root.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLIII.

VIOLA PEDATA.

_Bird’s-foot-leaved Violet._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum, breve, persistens; foliolis
ovato-oblongis, erectis, apice acutioribus, basi obtusis, supra basin
affixis, æqualibus, sed dispositione variis: quorum duo fulciunt petalum
α; singula singulum petalum β. γ.; unicum duo petala δ. ε. simùl.

COROLLA pentapetala, irregularis, petalis inæqualibus; quorum.

_Petalum_ α. _supremum_ rectum, deorsum spectans, latius, obtusius,
emarginatum, desinens basi in nectarium corniculatum, obtusum, inter
calycis foliola prominens.

β. γ. _Lateralia_ paria, obtusa, opposita, recta.

δ. ε. _Insima_ paria, majora, sursum reflexa.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, minima, quorum duo petalo α. proxima
appendicibus annexis intrant nectarium. Antheræ sæpius connexæ, obtusæ,
membranis ad apicem auctæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, extra antheras
prominens. Stigma obliquum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, trigona, obtusa, unilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA plura, ovata, appendiculata, valvis affixa. Receptaculum lineare,
per singulam valvulam lineæ instar excurrens.

_Obs. Stigma vel in hamum simplicem reflectitur, vel capitulum est
concavum apice perforato._

CUP five-leaved, short, permanent; leaflets oblong-egg-shaped, erect,
sharpish at the point, blunt at the bottom, joined together above the
base, equal, but variously disposed; of which, two support petal α. one
each petal β. γ. and one the two petals δ. ε. together.

BLOSSOM five petals, irregular, unequal petals, of which

_The upper petal_ α. is upright, bent back, broader, and blunter than
the rest, notched at the end, terminating at the base in a blunt
horn-shaped honey-cup, protruding between the leaflets of the cup.

_The lateral petals_ β. γ. grow in pairs, obtuse, opposite, upright.

_The lower petals_ δ. ε. grow in pairs, larger, and reflexed upwards.

CHIVES. Five threads, very small; of which the two nearest to the petal
α. have small appendages which enter the honey-cup, Tips generally
united, blunt, enlarged by skinny substances at the end.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, projecting beyond the
tips. Summit oblique.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, three-sided, blunt, one cell and three
valves.

SEEDS many, egg-shaped, having appendages, fixed to the valves.
Receptacle linear, running like a line along each valve.

_Obs. The summit is either reflexed into a simple hook, or a concave
small head perforated at the end._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

VIOLA acaulis; foliis pedatis, septempartitis; laciniis dentatis.

VIOLET without a stem, leaves formed like a bird’s foot, with seven
divisions; segments toothed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. One of the upper Petals of the Blossom.

3. One of the lateral Petals.

4. The lower Petal, with its Honey-cup.

5. The Chives and Pointal with the Appendages that fall into the
Honey-cup from the two hinder threads.

6. The Pointal magnified.


The Bird’s-foot-leaved Violet is a native of North America near
Philadelphia; and (according to the Kew Catalogue) was cultivated by Mr.
P. Miller, in 1759, at the Physic Gardens, Chelsea. It is a hardy
herbaceous plant, but is sometimes destroyed by the wetness of our
autumnal months: the flowers, if kept in the open air, expand about May,
or the beginning of June; but if kept in pots they, with a slight
protection from the Spring frosts, will be produced in April. Peat earth
is the soil it approves most, and it should not be exposed to too much
wet, whether planted in the borders or in pots. The roots may be parted
in March.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLIV.

ECHIUM ARGENTEUM.

_Silvery-leaved Viper’s-Bugloss._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA irregularis, fauce nudâ.

BLOSSOM irregular, mouth naked.

See ECHIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Echium foliis lanceolatis, acutis, sericeo-villosis; spicis
terminalibus; corolla violacea, subæqualia.

Viper’s-bugloss with lance-shaped leaves, sharp-pointed and
silkily-hairy; spikes terminate the branches; blossom violet colour,
nearly equal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives remaining attached.

3. The Seed-buds, Shaft, and Summit.


This fine species of Echium, was raised from seeds received from the
Cape of Good Hope in the year 1789, at the nursery, Hammersmith; where
our drawing was made, last year, from a plant which had been planted in
the open ground, for the summer months; and where it had grown to the
height of four feet. It is a hardy green-house plant, and grows best in
light earth, either peat, or leaf mould; and flowers about July. It is
as difficult to propagate as either, the E. grandiflorum, or E.
ferocissimum; but only to be increased, like them, by cuttings.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLV.

IXIA POLYSTACHIA.

_Many-spiked Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, patens, equalis. Stigmata 3, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6-divisions, spreading, equal. Summits three, nearly upright and
spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Vol. I. Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixa foliis linearibus; scapo spicis pluribus; floribus oppositis,
spicatis; corollis albidis.

Ixia with linear leaves; flower-stem with many spikes; flowers grow
opposite and spiked; blossoms white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A flower cut open to shew the situation of the Chives.

3. The Pointal natural size.


This is the plant which is figured by Miller, in the coloured plates
which correspond with the dictionary, 104, t. 155. fig. 2. under the
specific title it here bears; and, says the Kew Catalogue, was
cultivated by him 1757. Since this is the first which bore the title of
Polystachia, and being of the colour we think is mostly primitive in
flowers, we have given it the preference; and shall confider all the
other 18, (of which we have drawings and decidedly of this species) as
varieties from this. The flowers of this species are more lasting than
most of the others; and are in general, especially this sort, very
hardy. It propagates freely by the root and by seed. Our drawing was
made at the nursery, Hammersmith, last year, in the month of May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLVI.

BANKSIA ERICÆFOLIA.

_Heath-leaved Banksia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

_Receptaculum commune_ elongatum, squamosum. Corolla tetra-petala.
Stamina limbo inserta. Capsula bivalvis, disperma, interjecto seminibus
dissepimento mobili. Semina alata.

Common receptacle elongated, scaly. Blossom of four petals. Chives
inserted into the limb of the blossom. Capsule with two valves, two
seeds, and a moveable partition between them. Seeds winged.

See BANKSIA SERRATA, Pl. LXXXII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Banksia foliis linearibus, margine revolutis, truncato-emarginatis,
supra glabris.

Banksia with linear leaves, rolled back at the edge, appearing cut off
at the ends, which are notched and smooth on the upper side.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom complete.

2. The same spread open.

3. The Petals of a flower, with their chives magnified.

4. The Pointal natural size, with the Summit detached, magnified.

5. The rudiments of a cone, cleared from the flowers.


The seeds of this species of Banksia were amongst the first which
arrived from New Holland, and plants were raised at the nursery,
Hammersmith, in the same year as the B. serrata. To the directions in
the management and increase of which plant, we refer our readers for the
treatment of this, as it requires no other. It grows to the height of
five, or six feet, very bushy from the bottom, and the leaves, which are
harsh and numerous, are not very subject to decay. Although it has
flowered in many collections, where we have seen it, we have had no
opportunity of making an accurate drawing until last month, March 1801,
from a fine plant in the collection of G. Hibbert Esq. Clapham.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLVII.

CORDIA SEBESTENA.

_Rough-leaved Cordia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulatum, apice dentatum, persistens.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis: tubus patulus, longitudine
calycis; limbus erecto-patens, sectus in quinque (quatuor vel sex),
lacinias obtusas.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata. Antheræ oblongæ, longitudine tubi.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, acuminatum. Stylus simplex, longitudine
staminum, superne bifidus, laciniis bifidis. Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM. Drupa globosa, acuminata, calyce accreta.

SEMEN. Nux sulcata, quadrilocularis.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, tubular, toothed at the upper part, remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube widening, the length of the cup;
border upright and spreading, cut into five (four or six) obtuse
segments.

CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped. Tips oblong, the length of the tube.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, tapered. Shaft simple, the length of the
chives, two-cleft at the upper part, segments two-cleft. Summits blunt.

SEED-VESSEL, pulpy, globular, tapered, growing to the cup.

SEED. A furrowed, four-celled nut.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cordia foliis oblongo-ovatis, scabris; floribus miniatis, crispis,
hexandris.

Cordia with oblong egg-shaped rough leaves; flowers deep orange colour,
crumpled, and with six chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the Chives in their place.

6. The Pointal and Seed-bud.


As it should seem a determined principle in the inscrutable arrangement
of nature’s productions, to the greater humiliation of our very limited
understandings; that no effort as emanating solely from thence, shall be
perfect; so must we be content to pursue our Botanical travel, under the
guidance of a system decidedly defective; yet certainly, the best we
have to boast. Scarce a genus, comprehending a number of species, but
must be strained in its class or order, for the introduction of one, or
more species, evidently of the same family. So convinced was our great
master of the science, of the impossibility of forming such certain
data, that to prevent the confusion and difficulty, which must have
arisen, from such an accumulation of Genera, if every sexual character
was attended to, that, where certain other characters (called by him
essential, and adopted as a substitute for such occasional hiatus) are
formed, the plant is retained under the Genus so characterised. This
disquisition is the natural result of our examination of the present
plant, which, although the chives are six, is placed in the fifth class!

The Rough-leaved Cordia is a native of the Weft India Islands and was
cultivated, says Martyn’s Dictionary, from Dillenius, in the year 1728,
by Dr. Sherard. It is a tender hot-house plant, may be increased by
cuttings made about the month of April, if kept from too much moisture,
in a pot of sandy loam, under a small striking glass in the bark-bed. At
present it is rather a scarce plant in our collections, and as it is
rather difficult to propagate, is likely to continue so, at least for
some years. From an imported plant, received by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith, from the island of Barbadoes, our figure was taken in the
year 1789, about the month of July. It is grown to the greatest
perfection by keeping it in a mixture of rotten dung and loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLVIII.

GERANIUM ECHINATUM. _Var. flore rubro-purpureo._

_Prickly-stalked Geranium. Red-purple flowered Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV. _of Suppl. Syst. Veg. 1781._

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis sericeis, cordatis, inequaliter dentatis; caule spinoso,
subcarnoso, spinis retrofractis; floribus hexandris, rubro-purpureis;
calycibus pilosis.

Geranium with silky heart-shaped leaves, unequally toothed; stem spiny,
rather fleshy, spines turned downwards; flowers with six fertile tips
and red-purple; cups hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. An upper Petal of the Blossom.

3. An under Petal of the Blossom.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives spread open.

6. The Pointal, magnified.


This fine variety of the Prickly-stalked Geranium, was introduced, at
the same time with the white variety, by Mr. Francis Masson, to the
Royal Gardens, Kew, in the year 1795. It is a tender plant, and requires
the heat of the hot-house, through the winter months to preserve it,
being a native of that part of Africa near the Namaqua land, which is in
most parts a barren, arid sand, extremely hot and parched, experiencing
little change through the whole year. The propagation is either produced
by cuttings, or from the roots, which are tuberous, in most instances,
if the plant is kept in light sandy peat earth. The drawing was made, in
March this year, at the Nursery of Mr. J. Colville, King’s Road,
Chelsea.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLIX.

IXIA CAPITATA. _Var. flore albo, fundo nigro._

_Bunch flowering Ixia._ _Var. white flowered, black bottom._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, equal. Summits three, nearly upright,
spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Vol. I. Plate XIV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia, foliis ensiformibus; floribus capitatis, consertis, albidis,
petalis basi nigrissime notatis.

Ixia, with sword-shaped leaves; flowers grow in close bunches, whitish,
the petals very dark, marked at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the Chives remaining.

3. The Seed-bud and Pointal, one Summit detached, magnified.


As no difference, either in culture or increase, is necessary for this
plant, more than is required for the other varieties of this species of
Ixia; we shall refer our readers to the directions for the treatment of
them, for the management of this. Our figure is from a drawing taken at
the Hammersmith nursery in the year 1799, about the month of May. It is
one of those introduced to the Royal Gardens at Kew by Mr. F. Masson
about the year 1774, although lost to us for some years, but since
received from the collections in Holland.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLX.

ARISTEA MAJOR.

_Spike-flowered Aristea._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

PETALA 6. Stigma concavum. Capsula triloba, trilocularis, loculis
compressis. Semina in singulo loculo bina, compressa truncata.

PETALS 6. Summit concave. Capsule three-lobed, three-celled; cells
flattened. Seeds two in each cell, flattened and appearing cut off at
the end.

See ARISTEA CYANEA, Pl. X. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Aristea foliis ensiformibus longissimis; floribus spicatis, cæruleis.

Aristea with very long leaves; flowers grow in spikes, and blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A Blossom with the Seed-bud, both cut open and remaining attached,
the Shaft removed.

3. The Pointal natural size, with the summit detached magnified.

4. A ripe seed-vessel, natural size.

5. The same with the cells laid open to shew the situation of the seeds.


The Genus Aristea, having certainly been formed from a dried specimen of
the plant, the alterations we have made in our Generic and Essential
characters, will, upon inspecting the dissections, appear absolutely
necessary; as the shaft is not bent, in either species we have examined,
whilst the flower is perfect; but assumes that appearance on its decay,
as it becomes involved with the petals, which twist up in the manner of
Morœa, Iris, &c. The Summit likewise, is not funnel-shaped, but merely a
little concave, with a border; other small variations have been made, in
the character of the seed-vessel and seed. In the year 1794, this fine
plant was raised by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, from seeds received by them
from the Cape of Good Hope, where it is native. It is one of the very
hardiest inhabitants of the greenhouse, and is propagated, either from
the seed, which ripens with us; or by the offsets made from the root.
The plant is persistent, but does not acquire a stem; the leaves growing
to the length of from two, to three feet, the flower-stem sometimes to
the height of four feet; which was nearly that of the plant in the
Collection of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham, from which our drawing was taken
in the month of July 1800. It should be planted in sandy peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXI.

HERMANNIA PULVERATA.

_Powdered Hermannia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER II.

_MONADELPHIA PENTANDRIA._ Threads united. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, subrotundum, inflatum;
lacinulis inflexis; persistens.

COROLLA pentapetala, spiralis; ungues longitudine calycis, utrinque
aucti membranula connivente in tubum cucullatum nectariferum; limbus
patens, latiusculus, obtusus.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, latiuscula, inferne levissime in unum corpus
coalita. Antheræ erectæ, acuminatæ, conniventes.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, pentagonum, quinquangulare. Styli
quinque, filiformes, approximati, subulati, staminibus longiores.
Stigmata simplicia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, pentagona, quinque-locularis, apice
dehiscens.

SEMINA plurima, parva.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-cleft, roundish and swelled out; segments
turned inwards; remaining.

BLOSSOM, five petals, spiral; claws the length of the cup, widened on
both sides by a small skinny substance forming a honey-bearing,
cowl-shaped tube; border spreading, broadish, blunt.

CHIVES. Five threads, broadish, slightly joined at the base into one
body. Tips upright, tapered, and approaching each other.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, five-sided, five-angled. Shafts five,
thread-shaped, close together, awl shaped, longer than the Chives.
Summits simple.

SEED VESSEL. Capsula roundish, five-sided, five-celled, splitting at
top.

SEEDS, many, small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hermannia foliis bipinnatifidis, scabriusculis, albicantibus; pedunculis
bifloris, longissimis; corollis sordidé luteis.

Hermannia with doubly wing-cleft leaves, rather rough and whitish;
flower-stems two-flowered, very long; blossoms of a dirty yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A leaf of the Blossom, to shew its incurved character at the base.

3. The Chives, magnified, with the pointals remaining, to shew their
length with regard to the Chives.

4. The Seed-bud, Shafts, Summits, magnified.


This plant appears to stand an intermediate character, between Mahernia
and Hermannia: the general habit affines most to the former, and indeed,
the shape of the threads, on which the essential generical distinction
rests, approaches very near to those in Mahernia; for, although they
have not absolutely foot-stalks, they are much larger, above the middle,
than is usual in Hermannia, as may be seen on the plate; where these
parts are shewn, magnified. It has likewise that singularly curious
character, seen in Mahernia, of the two blossoms which terminate the
flower-stems, each taking a contrary direction, in its spiral twist, to
the other. As a greenhouse plant, it is rather tender in regard to damp,
though not to cold; therefore, should be kept in the most airy part of
the house. It is a native of the Cape, from whence it was introduced in
the year 1796, to the Royal Gardens, Kew. By cuttings made in the month
of April, it may be preserved, and increased, as it is not a long-lived
plant. Loam, with a small portion of old rotten dung, it thrives in
most. Our drawing was taken, at the Nursery, Hammersmith, in June 1800.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXII.

VERBASCUM FERRUGINEUM.

_Rusty-flowered Mullein._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquepartitum, parvum, persistens;
laciniis erectis, acutis.

COROLLA monopetala, rotata, sub-inæqualis; tubus cylindraceus,
brevissimus; limbus patens, quinque-partitus; laciniis ovatis, obtusis.

STAMINA. Filaments quinque, subulata, corolla breviora. Antheræ
subrotundæ, compressæ, erectæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum,
inclinatus. Stigma crassiusculum, obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, bilocularis, bivalvis, superne
dehiscens. Receptacula dimidiato-ovata, dissepimento affixa.

SEMINA numerosa, angulata.

_Obs._ In plerisque stamina inclinata sunt, villisque coloratis interne
vestita.

EMPALEMENT. Cup of one leaf, with five divisions, small, remaining;
segments upright, sharp pointed.

BLOSSOM one petal, wheel-shaped, rather unequal; tube cylindrical, very
short; border spreading, five divisions; segments egg-shaped, blunt.

CHIVES. Threads five, awl-shaped, shorter than the blossom. Tips
roundish, flattened, upright.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the
chives, bent downward. Summit rather thick and blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, with two cells, two valves, splitting at
the top. Receptacles the form of half an egg, fixed to the partition.

SEEDS numerous, angular.

_Obs._ In the greatest number of species the chives are bent downward,
and clothed with soft, coloured hairs on the lower part.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Verbascum foliis subvillosis, rugosis; caulinis subsessilibus, æqualiter
crenatis, radicalibus oblongis, cordatis, duplicato crenatis.

Mullein with leaves a little hairy and rough: stem leaves almost without
foot stalks, equally scolloped; leaves from the root oblong,
heart-shaped, and doubly scolloped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf of the plant, from the lower part.

2. The Empalement.

3. A Blossom, shewn from the front.

4. The same cut open from the side, to shew the insertion of the chives.

5. One Chive magnified.

6. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.


The rusty-flowered Mullein of the Kew Catalogue, collated from
Sutherland’s Hortus Medicus Edinburghensis, is undoubtedly our plant;
but, though it stands a name in the book, we much question its having
graced the garden, at the time of its publication. It certainly has been
lost to us above a century, and but recently introduced to the Oxford
Botanic Garden by the late Dr. Sibthorpe. Being a hardy biennial, it
will perfect its seeds about July, which may be sown in August the same
year. It will grow in any soil, but a sandy compost of light peat and
loam suits it most. The flowers on the spikes, which grow sometimes to
the length of four feet, continue to expand, upwards, for above two
months; that is to say, from April, till June. Our figure was taken from
a specimen sent by the Hon. W. H. Irby, from his garden at the
Parsonage, Farnham Royal, Bucks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXIII.

AMARYLLIS FOTHERGILLIA.

_Fothergillian Lily Daffodil._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, campanulata. Stigma trifidum.

BLOSSOM 6-petalled, bell shaped. Summit three-cleft.

See AMARYLLIS RADIATA, Pl. XCV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Amaryllis spatha multiflora; petalis lanceolatis, apice revolutis;
genetalibus erectis; foliis linearibus, sub-canaliculatis, obtusis,
glaucis.

Lily Daffodil with many flowers in the sheath; petals lance-shaped,
rolled back at the point; parts of fructification upright; leaves
linear, rather channelled, obtuse, and of a sea-green colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal, with its Chive attached.

2. The Seed bud, and Pointal.

3. A ripe Seed-vessel, with the Seeds.


Even amidst this splendid family, Amaryllis Fothergillia stands
conspicuously preeminent; the flowers have the same vivid character of
refulgence, when exposed to the sun’s rays, which is perceived in A.
Sarniensis, or the Guernsey Lily, to which it is nigh affined. The late
Dr. Fothergill (to whom the botanical world is so much indebted, for the
zeal and extraordinary liberality he constantly manifested, in advancing
the science) received this plant from China at the same time with A.
aurea, A. radiata, &c. about the year 1777. It is rather a scarce and
tender bulb, as it is subject to rot by overmuch wet. It has hitherto
been kept, as are most plants on their first arrival from China, in the
hot-house; but, from every appearance, we should be led to suppose, it
would not perish if kept in the Green-house, as we question much,
whether it is not equally hardy with the Guernsey Lily, and a native,
originally, as well as the latter, of Japan.

It should be planted in sandy loam, with a small quantity of rough peat,
above the tiles in the pot, to make it flower. The propagation is from
offsets, which are produced but rarely from the old bulbs. Our figure
was taken from a plant in the Hammersmith nursery this year, 1801, in
the month of May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXIV.

GALAXIA GRANDIFLORA.

_Large-flowered Galaxia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER I.

_MONADELPHIA TRIANDRIA._ Threads united. Three Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

SPATHA univalvis. Corolla monopetala, 6 fida, tubus filiformis. Stigma
multipartita.

SHEATH of one valve. Blossom one petal, 6-cleft, tube thread-shaped.
Summit many divisions.

See GALAXIA OVATA, Pl. XCIV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Galaxia foliis canaliculatis, acuminatis, arcuatis; corolla magna,
lutea, folia æquantia.

Galaxia with channelled leaves, tapered to the point, and arched;
blossom large, yellow, and the length of the leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The sheath of the blossom.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the Chives attached.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, the summit detached, magnified.


The figure of this delicate little bulb was taken from a plant in the
Hibbertian Collection, which had been imported in the last, and flowered
in February this year 1801. It is a tender plant, and the roots are very
subject to decay after flowering, for which reason, they should be
removed from the pot before the leaves are quite decayed. Mr. Allen
informs us he has kept it, in the greenhouse, with the other Cape bulbs,
planted in light sandy peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXV.

ECHIUM GLAUCOPHYLLUM.

_Sea-green-leaved Viper’s-Bugloss._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA irregularis, fauce nuda.

BLOSSOM irregular, mouth naked.

See ECHIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Echium caule fruticoso; ramis calycibusque glabris; foliis
ovato-lanceolatis, glaucis, glabris, margine serrulatis; corollis
subæqualibus.

Viper’s-Bugloss with a shrubby stem; branches very smooth; leaves
between egg and lance-shaped, of a sea-green colour, smooth, and
slightly sawed at the margin; blossoms nearly equal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the chives.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.


This shrubby species of Echium was introduced, to the Royal Gardens at
Kew, by Mr. F. Masson, in the year 1792, from the Cape of Good Hope. It
grows to the height of three feet, or more, rather bushy at the top,
flowers about the month of May, and perfects its seeds with us; by which
only method, it is to be propagated. It thrives best in a light loamy
soil, with a small proportion of sandy peat, about one fourth.

Professor Martyn, in his Miller’s Dic. has collated two descriptions of
Echiums under the titles of lævigatum, and glabrum; the first, No. 9,
from Lin. Sp. Plant. 199; the second, No 19, from Vahl. Symb. 3. 22.
Thunberg has likewise, in his Prodromus, 33. two names of plants, as E.
lævigatum, and E. glabrum; from whom Willdenow, in his new Edition of
Sp. Plant, p. 785, has copied them under the same titles; adding, the
various synonyms, from Linnæus’s Sp. Plant, to the one; and to the
latter, Prof. Jacquin’s specific of glaucophyllum, taken from his Ic.
rar. 2. t. 312, and his Collect. 2. p. 325. Now, we have little
hesitation in declaring our opinion, and we think, those who choose to
compare our figure with the different descriptions here mentioned, will
coincide with us, that this is the plant from which they must all have
originated, except the E. glabrum of Vahl, which we take to be a
different plant; as, the cup is described hairy, the length of the tube
of the blossom; the chives longer, and the flower smaller. Wherefore, we
have taken, for our plant, the specific title of Jacquin, as being, in
our idea, the most appropriate.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXVI.

GLADIOLUS ABREVIATUS.

_Shortened-petalled Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis linearibus, cruciatis, scapo longioribus; corolla
tubulosa, striata, ima angustata, lacinia summa magna, recta, ovata,
reliquæ vero parvæ, abreviatæ.

Gladiolus with linear leaves, cross shaped, longer than the flower-stem;
blossom tubular, streaked, and narrowed at the lower part, the upper
petal is large, grows straight out, and egg-shaped, the others are
small, and appear as if shortened.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The outer sheath of the Empalement.

2. The inner sheath of the Empalement.

3. A Blossom spread open, with the Chives attached.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits.


This most singular Gladiolus was received, amongst a variety of others,
in the year 1799, from the Cape of Good Hope, by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith; at whose nursery it flowered in March, this year
1801, for the first time. It is a hardy bulb, and propagates freely from
the root; grows about two feet high, and, before flowering, has much the
appearance of G. tristis.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXVII.

BRUNSFELSIA UNDULATA.

_Waved-flowered Brunsfelsia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum, quinquedentatum, obtusum,
minimum, persitens.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus longissimus, subincurvus;
limbus planus, quinquefidus, obtusus.

STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, brevissima. Antheræ oblongæ, erectæ,
filamentis dorso affixæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, parvum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
tubi. Stigma crassiusculum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula extus baccata, globosa, unilocularis, bivalvis.

SEMINA plurima, compressa, hinc convexa, inde angulata, punctato-scabra.

RECEPTACULUM fundo capsulæ adnatum, paleaceum; paleis coadunatis, apice
subulatis, semina distinguentibus.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, bell-shaped, five-toothed, blunt, very small,
remaining.

BLOSSOM. One petal, funnel-shaped; tube very long, rather curved; border
flat, five-cleft, obtuse.

CHIVES. Four threads, very short. Tips oblong, upright, fixed by the
back to the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, small. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of
the tube. Summit rather fleshy.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule on the outside a berry, globular, one cell, two
valves.

SEEDS many, flat, convex on one side, angular on the other, roughly
punctured.

RECEPTACLE fixed to the bottom of the capsule, chaffy; chaffs joining at
the base, awl shaped at the point, separating the seeds.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Brunsfelsia foliis lanceolato-obovatis, utrinque acuminatis, petiolis
brevissimis; tubus parum incurvatus, laciniis limbi undulatis.

Brunsfelsia with leaves between lance and inversely egg-shaped, tapered
to both ends, footstalks very short; tube a little incurved, the
segments of the border waved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The tube of the blossom cut open, to shew the insertion and character
of the Chives.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud.


The Genus Brunsfelsia (by Plumier so named, in honour of Otho Brunsfels
a monk, the first who edited in 1530 a Botanical work with good figures,
it contained 238 plates) has undergone a very necessary revision since
the days of Linnæus; indeed, it appears singular that Father Plumier,
from whom Linnæus quotes his Generic character, should have committed so
great an oversight, as to describe it with five chives; a feature
scarcely to be expected, from a sport of nature, in plants of this
Class. So however it is on record, and the fifth Class of the Gen. and
Spe. Plant, and of the Syst. Nat. tom. ii. each includes this Genus;
from which, we should be induced to think he had designed some other
plant; if the figure, and the rest of the description, did not confirm
it. Schreber, in his Gen. Plant, has likewise an observation, that the
fruit should be named a capsule, rather than a berry; as given by
Linnæus, Miller, and Swartz; his reason, that it splits determinately,
by a suture, from the top to the base.

Our species, is the third now in Britain; they are all natives of the
West India Islands. The 1st B. americana has been long an inhabitant of
our hothouses; the 2d B. maculata is but little known to most, though
long cultivated here; as it has been treated as a variety of the first
species, notwithstanding the strong specific difference, in the shape of
the leaves and blossoms; which in the B. maculata, are beautifully
marked at the base, and as large as the undulata; the leaves inversely
egg-shaped and more downy. The present plant seldom grows more than four
feet high, flowers freely about March, is very sweet scented, and is
easily propagated by cuttings. It was first sent to England in the year
1784 by Mr. Elcock from the Island of Barbadoes, to Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith. Our drawing was made from a plant in the Clapham
Collection, in March 1800. It should be planted in rich earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXVIII.

GERANIUM PICTUM.

_Painted-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5, Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis cordato-oblongis, obtusis, inequaliter incisis,
tomentosis, humi adpressis; corolla alba, petalis superioribus profundè
supra medium rubro maculatis; staminibus septem fertilibus; radice
tuberosa.

Geranium with oblong heart-shaped leaves, blunt, unequally gashed,
downy, and lying close to the ground; blossom white; the upper petals
deeply marked with red about the middle; seven fertile chives; root
tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.

3. The Chives spread open, magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, magnified.


No Genus of Plants claims our notice, for its beauty, more than
Geranium, and this species, certainly, ranks amongst the foremost. It is
a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and we believe only to be found in
the Clapham Collection; where, our figure was taken in April this year,
from a plant, the bulb or root of which had been received the preceding
autumn. It is nearly the only one, amongst twenty-two species of the
tuberous kind, all having irregular petalled blossoms and tubular cups,
of which we possess drawings, that has seven fertile chives; the greater
number have two, four, or five. It appears to flourish under the
treatment given it by Mr. Allen, which is, by keeping it in sandy peat,
on a shelf, very dry, in the green-house. The propagation appears to be
the same for this, as the other tuberous kinds, that is, by the root.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXIX.

CRINUM GIGANTEUM.

_Gigantic Asphodel-Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA supra, infundibuliformis, sexpartita, æqualis; filamenta tubi
fauci inserta; semina ad basin corollarum, vivipara.

BLOSSOM above, funnel-shaped, six-parted, equal; threads inserted into
the mouth of the tube; seeds at the base of the blossoms, viviparous.

See CRINUM SPIRALE, Pl. XCII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Crinum foliis flaccidis, undulatis; floribus sessilibus, umbellatis;
petalis concavis, subalbidis.

Asphodel-Lily with flaccid, waved leaves; flowers sitting close to the
flower stem in umbels; petals concave, nearly white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A miniature representation of the whole plant.

2. A Petal with its chive.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.


The coast of Africa bordering on our settlement at Sierra Leone, has
furnished us with a number of beautiful plants; but none more so, than
those of the natural order of Lily; witness our present figure, which
was taken from a plant in the Hammersmith collection, in the month of
August 1800. The bulbs of this grand species of Crinum, were received by
her Ladyship, the Right Honourable the Marchioness of Rockingham, about
the year 1792, from Sierra Leone; they may be considered as hardy
hothouse plants, and may be kept in any part of it; will flower, freely,
about the month of August, the flower-stems rising, sometimes, to the
height of three feet. A mixture, of leaf mould, or sandy peat one half,
and light loam the other, is the best compost to make them flourish. It
is propagated from the seed, or offsets.--Having made a small
alteration, in the Essential Character of the Genus; and as it is likely
we may figure some other species of Crinums shortly; we think it
necessary to add a few words, to that point. The most ostensible
difference, we have been able to trace, in comparing above 40 species of
Crinums and Amaryllis’s, and on which to rest, with certainty, for
generical distinction; can, unquestionably, be taken only, from the
seeds; as these in most species of Pancratium, Hæmanthus, and all of
this Genus, are viviparous or formed like fleshy bulbs, producing
plants, like offsets taken from the original bulbs. From Pancratium it
is distinct, in being destitute of the Honey-cup; and equally so from
Hæmanthus, which has its sheath of many leaves, the flowers and chives
upright, and the chives, twice the length of the blossoms.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXX.

IXIA BULBOCODIUM. _Var. flore speciosissimo._

_Crocus-leaved Ixia._ _Var. with most beautiful flower._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis. Stamina tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, spreading, equal. Chives three, upright, spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia scapo unifloro; foliis linearibus, canaliculatis, scapo æquantibus;
corolla declinata, tubo brevi; stigmatibus sextuplicibus.

Ixia with one flower on the stem; leaves linear, and channelled, the
length of the flower-stem; blossom declined, with a short tube; summits
sextuple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut and spread open, with the Chives, shewn from the
inside.

3. The same, shewn from the back or outside.

4. The Pointal, with the Summits, magnified.


This extremely delicate, and beautiful little Ixia, flowered, for the
first time, in March this year, 1801, in the collection of G. Hibbert,
Esq. Clapham Common; the bulbs having been received the preceding autumn
from the Cape of Good Hope. It appears to be one of those plants, which
seldom survive the second season, in this climate; and we much fear,
without a fresh supply, it will be soon lost to this country; as it does
not ripen its seeds, and the roots do not seem as if inclined to
increase by offsets.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXI.

HYPOXIS LINEARIS.

_Linear-leaved Hypoxis._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, persistens, supera. Capsula basi angustior. Spatha
2-valvis.

BLOSSOM 6-parted, remaining, above. Capsule narrower at the base. Sheath
2-valved.

See HYPOXIS STELLATA, Pl. CI. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hypoxis foliis linearibus, glabris, canaliculatis, longiore scapo
unifloro; corolla intus aurea, extus viridis.

Hypoxis with linear leaves, smooth, channelled, and longer than the
flower-stem, which has but one flower; blossom orange within, green
without.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Chives and Seed-bud.

2. Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

3. The Seed-bud cut transversely.


At first, we had some doubts whether this plant should not be considered
as a variety of Hypoxis stellata, to which it undoubtedly affines; but,
upon due examination, find it a distinct and new species; as well, from
the shape and length of the leaves, as the shape, character, and colour
of the blossom, and figure of the root.

Like Hypoxis stellata it is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was
introduced, from thence, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, in the year 1792.
For its treatment, &c. we must refer our readers to the above species,
Pl. 101. Vol. 2. Our drawing was taken in March 1801 from a plant in the
Hibbertian Collection, Clapham Common. The flower of this plant, like
many of the Ixias, &c. is expanded but a few hours each day, and that
only, whilst under the influence of a strong morning sun; as, if the
weather is gloomy, it keeps close shut, but does not speedily decay, for
it will continue to open, with equal brilliancy, for eight or ten days.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXII.

ANEMONE PALMATA.

_Cyclamen-leaved Portugal Anemone._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA. Petala duorum triumve ordinum, in singula serie tria,
oblongiuscula.

STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, capillaria, corolla dimidio breviora.
Antheræ didymæ, erectæ.

PISTILLA. Germina numerosa, in capitulum collecta. Styli acuminati.
Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Receptaculum globosum, sive oblongum,
excavato-punctatum.

SEMINA plurima, acuminata, stylum retinentia.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM. Petals in two or three rows, three in a row, rather oblong.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, hair-like, half the length of the blossom.
Tips doubled, erect.

POINTALS. Seed-buds numerous, collected into a small head. Shafts
tapered. Summits blunt.

SEED-VESSEL none. Receptacle globular or oblong, hollowed and dotted.

SEEDS many, tapered, retaining the shaft.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Anemone foliis reniformibus, sub-lobatis crenatis; involucro multifido;
petalis exterioribus villosis, majoribus.

Anemone with kidney-shaped leaves, a little lobed, scolloped; fence
many-cleft; the outer petals hairy and larger.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer Petal of the Blossom, shewn from the inside.

2. The Chives, as they stand on the receptacle.

3. The small Head, as formed by the pointals.

4. A Seed-bud and its appendages, a little magnified.


This species of Anemone, is a native of Portugal, having been brought
from thence about the year 1788, and first cultivated at the Hammersmith
Nursery; the specific title of Lusitanica obtained for a time, but
little doubt rests now of its being the A. palmata of Linnæus’s Sp. Pl.
p. 758, and of Vahl, Desfontaines, &c. How the plant could first acquire
the name of palmata, is certainly a mystery; unless it might be, from
the appearance of the fence, which nevertheless but ill accords with
that character. Bauhin’s affination, as Cyclamen-leaved, is certainly
the most appropriate, as the leaves both in shape, and the colour of the
upper and under part, are exact with C. coum. It is rather too delicate
for our winters, if exposed in the open borders; but, makes a pretty
appearance, in spring, if kept in a pot, in light, rich earth. Like most
Anemonies, it propagates best by dividing the roots, which are long and
cylindrical; but, care must be taken not to water the pots, for some
time after planting, as they are apt to rot, where they are broken.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXIII.

GERANIUM ROSEUM.

_Rosy Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis inciso-lobatis, tomentosis, lobis crenatis, obtusis;
pedunculis multifloris; floribus erectis, consertis, roseis, pentandris;
calycibus monophyllis; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with deeply-gashed, lobed, downy leaves, the lobes scolloped
and blunt; flower-stems many flowered; the flowers erect, crowded,
rose-coloured and with five tips; cups one-leaved; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with its hollow tube cut open.

2. The Chives cut open.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits.


About the year 1794, this species of Geranium was first introduced to
the Royal Gardens, Kew, by Mr. Francis Masson, from the Cape of Good
Hope. Of all the tuberous kind, this is, certainly, the most specious
yet in England; it flowers generally about March, in which month, our
drawing was made, from a specimen in the nursery of Mr. J. Colville,
King’s Road, Chelsea. Mr. Colville informs us, that the propagation is
very difficult, and only to be performed by the root; as the plant does
not produce any branches, and that the seeds do not ripen; he keeps it
in a mixture of rotten leaves, and sandy peat, in which, it has every
appearance of luxuriant health.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXIV.

ANTHOLYZA TUBULOSA. _Var. flore variegato._

_Tubular Antholyza._ _Striped flowered Var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA tubulosa, irregularis, recurvata, Capsula infera.

BLOSSOM tubular, irregular, and bent backward. Capsule beneath.

See ANTHOLYZA RINGENS, Pl. XXXII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Antholyza floribus tubulosis, subcylindraceis; scapo disticho, foliis
lanceolato-ensiformibus, breviore.

Antholyza with tubular, nearly cylindrical flowers; flower-stem with the
blossoms pointing two opposite ways, leaves between lance and sword
shaped, shorter.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom of a variety, differing in the paleness, and size of the
flowers, and without variegation.

2. The Empalement.

3. A flower cut open, with the Chives attached.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, one Summit magnified.


This fine species of Antholyza was received by Messrs. Grimwood and
Wykes, Kensington, from the Cape of Good Hope, in the year 1796; they
possess three varieties, and we should have been happy to have given a
blossom of the third, but, it was out of flower before our drawing was
taken, which was, in the end of June, this year. It is a hardy bulb, and
increases freely, either by the seed, or from the root, and should be
planted in sandy peat, with a small mixture of loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXV.

MELALEUCA ERICÆFOLIA.

_Heath-leaved Melaleuca._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads in many sets. Many Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium turbinatum, germini adnatum, quinquefidum seu
quinquedentatum.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, rotundata, calycis margini interiori inserta.

STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, filiformia, in fasciculos quinque connata.
Antheræ incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, fundo calycis adnatum. Stylus filiformis,
erectus. Stigma simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subglobosa, calycis ventre corticata, summitate
nuda, trilocularis, dissepimentis contrariis.

SEMINA plurima, oblonga, seu rotundato-angulata, seu alata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup turban-shaped, growing to the seed-bud, five-cleft or
five-toothed.

BLOSSOM. Five petals rounded, inserted into the inner margin of the cup.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, thread-shaped, united in five bundles. Tips
incumbent.

POINTAL. Seed-bud turban-shaped, growing to the bottom of the cup. Shaft
thread-shaped, erect. Summit simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly globular, coated by the belly of the cup,
the upper part naked, three-celled, partitions contrary.

SEEDS many, oblong, or rounded with angles, or winged.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Melaleuca foliis sparsis oppositisve, linearibus, enerviis, subrecurvis,
muticis; floribus sessilibus, apicem versus ramulorum confertis,
spicatis.

Melaleuca with scattered or opposite leaves, linear, without nerves, a
little turned back and beardless; flowers grow close to the stem,
crowded together near the end of the smaller branches in spikes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Prop, one which is to be found at the base of each flower.

2. A Blossom, natural size.

3. The same magnified.

4. One of the five bundles of Chives, with its Petal, to which it is
attached at the base, magnified.

5. The Cup, Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, natural size, the summit
detached and magnified.


The plants from New Holland, of the natural order of Myrti; comprized
under the different Genera of Metrosideros, Eucalyptus, Leptospermum,
Myrtus, and this present one of Melaleuca; seem, from what we yet know,
to constitute a very distinguished part, of the woody vegetable
productions of that country: wherefore, we can have little hopes of
seeing many of them flower with us, at least, for many years to come.
The M. ericæfolia was amongst the first plants raised in 1788, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, from seeds; but, till this year,
we believe it has not been seen to flower, in any collection in Great
Britain; nor perhaps would it, as yet, had not a large and old plant,
been planted out in the novel and elegant conservatory of the Right Hon.
the Marquis of Blandford at White Knights, near Reading, Berks, from a
branch of which, obligingly communicated by his Lordship, our drawing
was taken, the beginning of July, this year.

The Plant grows to the height of six or seven feet, upright, very
branching, the branches weeping, and the flowers, which grow in spikes
or branches of about six inches in length, project, straight out, from
about the middle of the stem.

It grows best in a mixture of two thirds sandy peat, and one third loam;
may be propagated by cuttings made, from the tender shoots, in the month
of March, and kept under a glass, in the tan bed of the hothouse, or in
a melon frame until rooted.

This species of Melaleuca and the Metrosideros Nodosa of Gaertner, 1st
Vol. de fruct. p. 172, t. 34, f. 6, we must confider as the same, though
made by Dr. Smith, see Linn. Trans. Vol. III. p. 276, distinct species;
perhaps from specimens gathered at different times, differently dried,
or from different parts of the country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXVI.

CRATÆVA CAPPAROIDES.

_Caper-like Cratæva._


CLASS XI. ORDER I.

_DODECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER. Schreb. _Gen. Plant. Vol. I. p. 320._

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quadrifidum, deciduum, basi planum;
laciniis patentibus, ovatis, inæqualibus.

COROLLA. Petala quatuor, oblonga, unguibus tenuibus, longitudine
calycis, divisuris inserta.

STAMINA. Filamenta sedecim vel plura, setacea, corolla breviora. Antheræ
erectæ, oblongæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen, pedicello filiformi, longissimo, ovatum. Stylus
nullus. Stigma sessile, capitatum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca? carnosa, globosa, maxima, pedicellata, unilocularis,
bivalvis.

SEMINA plura, subrotunda, emarginata, nidulantia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, four-cleft, falling off, flat at the base;
segments spreading, egg-shaped, unequal.

BLOSSOM. Four petals, oblong, claws slender, the length of the cup and
inserted into the divisions.

CHIVES. Threads sixteen or more, like bristles, shorter than the
blossom. Tips erect, oblong.

POINTAL. Seed-bud on a thread-shaped and very long foot-stalk,
egg-shaped. Shaft none. Summit sitting on the seed-bud, headed.

SEED-VESSEL. A Berry? fleshy, globular, large, with a foot-stalk,
one-celled, two-valved.

SEEDS many, roundish, notched at the end, dispersed in pulp.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cratæva foliolis elipticis, glabris; floribus umbellatis, terminalibus,
luteo-viridibus, petalis longissimis, apicibus crispis.

Cratæva with eliptical, smooth leaflets; flowers grow in umbels,
terminal and yellow green; petals very long, crisped at the ends.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Shews the Pointal, part of the Chives, and three Petals of the
blossom; a few of the Chives, one of the Petals, and the leaves of the
Empalement, being removed, the better to exhibit the structure of the
blossom.

2. The Pointal, complete.


To Mr. Eldred Elfzelius, a native of Sweden, we are indebted for this
species of Cratæva; by whom it was brought to Great Britain, on his
return from Sierra Leone, in the year 1795. As a native of that burning
clime, it will not endure our winters, without the protection of the
hothouse; to which, as a climber, it is a considerable ornament, both in
foliage, and flower; the flowers coming, in succession, from June, till
August; perhaps, much later, as we believe, this is the first time its
blossoms have been produced in England. The propagation is extremely
easy, by cuttings; but, to give the plant sufficient vigour for
flowering, it must be planted in a border, prepared of old rotten dung,
sandy peat, and loam, of each, equal parts; separated from the tan-bed
by a partition of boards, sufficiently strong to support the earth, upon
the removal of the tan. This method of treating many of the tropical
climbers, and even the common Caper, though a native of the south of
Europe, has been found necessary to their production of flowers in this
country. Our figure was taken from a plant, treated in the above manner,
in the Stepney collection; from whence, through the kind indulgence of
the truly urbanic, and indefatigable proprietor, T. Evans, Esq. we are
in hopes of gratifying our botanical friends, with the figures of a
number of plants, new to this country; and of which he is, at present,
the sole possessor.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXVII.

IXIA PUNCTATA.

_Dotted flowered Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, patens, æqualis.

STIGMATA 3, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6 divisions, spreading, equal.

SUMMITS three, nearly upright, spreading.

See Ixia reflexa, Pl. XIV. Vol I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliis linearibus, scapo vaginantibus; scapus geniculatus,
subtriflorus; laciniis corollæ obovatis, lineato-punctatis, purpureis.

Ixia with linear leaves sheathing the stem; flower-stem jointed, mostly
three flowered; segments of the blossom inversely egg-shaped, dotted in
lines, and purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. A Blossom cut open, with the Chives attached.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits; a division of one of the summits
magnified.


This curious Ixia was introduced from the Cape of Good Hope, in the year
1800, by G. Hibbert, Esq. and is, we believe, in the possession of no
other in this kingdom. It is a tender bulb, flowering about April, or
May, and appears, either by the bulb, or seed, to be slow of increase.
The bulb, from which our figure was taken, was planted in light, sandy
peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXVIII.

FERRARIA PAVONIA.

_Mexican Ferraria._


CLASS XVI. ORDER I.

_MONADELPHIA TRIANDRIA._ Threads united. Three Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER. Schreb. _Gen. Plant. V. II. p. 451._

CALYX. Spathæ binæ, alternæ, carinatæ, involutæ, unifloræ.

COROLLA monopetala, supera, sexpartita; laciniis oblongis,
erecto-patentibus, undulato-crispatis, maculatis; tribus alternis
exterioribus latioribus.

STAMINA. Filamenta tria, in tubum cylindraceum, corolla breviorem,
connata, superne distincta. Antheræ subovatæ, didymæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, triquetrum, obtusum, inferum. Stylus
filiformis, longitudine tubi.

STIGMATA tria, profundè bifida.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, triquetra, trilocularis, trivalvis;
dissepimentis contrariis.

SEMINA numerosa, subrotunda, pulpa involuta.

EMPALEMENT. Sheaths two, alternate, keeled, involute, one-flowered.

BLOSSOM one petal, above, six divided; segments oblong,
upright-spreading, crisp-waved and spotted; the three alternate outer
ones the broadest.

CHIVES. Threads three, in a cylindrical tube shorter than the blossom,
joined together, separate at the top. Tips nearly egg-shaped, double.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, three-sided, blunt, beneath. Shaft
thread-shaped, the length of the tube.

SUMMITS three, deeply two cleft.

SEED VESSEL. Capsule oblong, three-sided, three-celled, three-valved;
partitions contrary.

SEEDS many, roundish, covered with a pulp.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ferraria corollis sub campanulatis, speciosissimis; laciniis planis,
tribus interioribus hastatis, nectariferis; foliis plicatis, basi
spathaceis.

Ferraria with blossoms nearly bell-shaped and very shewy; segments
plain, the three inner ones are halbert-shaped, and have honey-cups,
leaves plaited, sheathing at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Sheaths of the Empalement.

2. An outer Petal of the Flower.

3. An inner Petal of the Flower.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The Chives spread open.

6. The Pointal complete, one of the summits magnified.


This is, without doubt, the Mexican plant given in the 2nd. Vol. t. 31.
f. 2. of Swertius’s Florilegium, published in 1612; by F. Hernandez, in
his Nov. Plant. &c. Mex. Hist. p. 276, in 1618; and of Mutis, under the
title it here bears, in his Flo. Amer. 1. t. 15; from whom it has been
copied into the Suppl. Plant. of the younger Linnæus, p. 407. and
continued by Professor Martyn in his Mill. Dic. Art. Ferraria 2. This
Genus, which was originally formed on the Ferraria undulata of the Cape,
and placed to the class Gynandria by Linnæus, has been so continued by
Martyn, &c. but upon what grounds, we are unable to determine; unless
the mistake arose from the impracticability of dividing the tube of the
chives, from the shaft, in a dried specimen; which, in such transitory
flowers as those of Ferraria, Sisyrinchium, Galaxia, &c. all of this
class, seem, in that state, to form a perfect unison. Schreber has
referred these Genera, in his Ed. of Linn. Gen. Plant. to where they
certainly must stand, to Monadelphia. But, although we have continued
the plant under the title by which it is generally known, from an
adherence to our original principle; yet do we think, it equally
necessary to state our opinion, why we consider its generical reference
to have been as ill taken up, as the Genus had been ill classified. This
plant, as may be seen from our dissections, is much nigher affined to
Sisyrinchium, as it wants every essential character of Ferraria, such as
a sheath of one leaf, undulated crisped petals, hooded and fringed
summits, &c. for we do not consider the length of the tube of the
blossom of any moment, as it is not constant. Now, every distinguishing
feature of Sisyrinchium are here extant, viz. a sheath of two leaves,
flat or plain petals, summits neither hooded or fringed; but our figure
will better explain, than words, these strong marked differences. If
indeed we were to give an opinion, it certainly would not be in
coincidence with Thunberg, by placing the whole Genus to Moræa; but to
create a new one from this plant; whose whole structure, but especially
from the Nectaria or honey-cups upon the margin of the inner petals,
stands eminently distinguished from all others.

This most distinguished plant, was first introduced to this country by
Mrs. Hudson of Manchester, about the year 1797; but is now found in most
collections round the Metropolis. It is increased by the seed, which
ripens in this climate, and from the root, which makes abundance of
offsets. The flowers expand in rotation, three or four upon each stem at
the interval of a few days; the stem growing to the height of about two
feet. So very rapid is the progress of the blossom in its decay, from
the time of its opening, which is generally about seven o’clock in the
morning; that before twelve, the lustre is gone, and it is quite decayed
by three, or four. Our drawing was made at the Hammersmith Nursery in
July; and still there were a number of flower stems, which had not, as
yet, made an appearance of flowering. It is best grown in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXIX.

AMARYLLIS RETICULATA.

_Netted-flowered Lily-Daffodil._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, campanulata. Stigma trifidum.

BLOSSOM 6-petalled, bell-shaped. Summit three-cleft.

See AMARYLLIS RADIATA, Pl. XCV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Amaryllis spatha multiflora; corollis reticulatis, purpureis; foliis
oblongis, reticulatis, basi attenuatis.

Lily Daffodil, sheath many flowered; blossoms netted and purple; leaves
oblong, netted, and tapered at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal and its Chive, attached, as it is in the flower.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.


The Amaryllis reticulata, a native of Brazil, South America, was first
cultivated in the year 1772, at the Hammersmith nursery; the bulbs had
been received from Portugal by Edward Whittaker Gray, M.D. of the
British Museum; and were by him communicated to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy.
Our drawing was made this spring, in May, from a plant in the
invaluable, and extensive collection of hothouse plants, at Stepney,
belonging to T. Evans, Esq. where it flowers annually.

To ensure the flowering of this plant, it is necessary to plunge the pot
in the heat of the bark-bed of the hothouse; and, during the winter
months, to keep the earth rather dry, as the bulbs are very subject to
rot, without that precaution. It should be planted in a composition of
old rotten dung, or leaf mould, and a small proportion of loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXX.

ATRAGENE AUSTRIACA.

_Austrian Atragene._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 4-phyllus. Petala. 12. Semina caudata.

EMPALEMENT 4 leaves. Petals 12. Seeds with tails.

See ATRAGENE CAPENSIS, Pl. IX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Atragene foliis oppositis, triternatis; foliolis rugosis, ferratis;
floribus solitariis, tomentosis, cernuis; calyce magno, cæruleo,
marginato.

Atragene with opposite, twice-three-divided leaves; leaflets rough and
sawed; flowers solitary, downy, nodding; empalement large, blue, and
bordered.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf of the empalement.

2. A Petal of the flower.

3. A Chive complete.

4. The Pointals as they stand in the flower.

5. A ripe seed, with its feathered tail.


This is, unquestionably, the Austrian Atragene of Jacquin’s Vind. 249;
and, we think, no one who has had an opportunity of comparing the A.
alpina with this plant, but will determine it a distinct species. It is
a hardy, climbing shrub; growing frequently, eight or ten feet in a
season, and covers itself pretty abundantly with foliage; the
foot-stalks of the old leaves becoming cirrhi or tendrils, and the wood
growing to a considerable thickness. The flowers begin to appear about
May; and continue in succession, till July. It may be propagated by
layers; but, the surest mode is by seed, which may be sown as soon as
ripe, and which will be perfected from the first flowers, by August. It
grows the most flourishing in light rich earth; but will live in the
most common. Our figure was made from a plant in the Hammersmith
collection, to which it was first introduced in the year 1792.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXI.

VACCINIUM VIRGATUM.

_Green-twigged Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta. Bacca
quadrilocularis, polysperma.

CUP superior. Blossom one petal. Threads fixed into the receptacle. A
berry with four cells and many seeds.

See VACCINIUM ARCTOSTAPHYLLOS. Pl. XXX. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Vaccinium foliis oblongo-ovatis, ferrulatis, deciduis, ramulis
viridibus; floribus, sub-umbellatis, axillaribus; corollis,
sub-cylindraceis; calycibus apice reflexis. Staminibus decem.

Whortle-berry with oblong egg-shaped leaves, slightly sawed, deciduous,
the small branches green; flowers grow rather umbelled from where the
leaves are fixed to the stem; blossoms nearly cylindrical; cups reflexed
at the upper part. Ten chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower complete.

2. The Cup.

3. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud, the cup cut off, magnified.

4. A nearly ripe berry.


This species of Whortle-berry was, according to the Kew Catalogue,
introduced by Mr. Young in the year 1770. It is a hardy plant; and, as a
native of North America, where it is an under shrub of the woods, should
be planted in a shady situation, in peat earth. It is rarely killed by
our frosts; grows about two feet high, and loses its leaves in winter.
Our drawing was made in June, this year, at the Nursery, Hammersmith,
where it is propagated by layers.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXII.

MALVA DIVARICATA.

_Straddling-branched Mallow._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX duplex; exterior 3-phyllus. Arilli plurimi, monospermi.

CUP double; outer three-leaved. Seed-coats many, one-seeded.

See MALVA REFLEXA, Pl. CXXXV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Malva foliis lobatis, plicatis, dentatis, scabridis; ramis ramulisque
divaricatis, flexuosis.

Mallow with lobed leaves, plaited, toothed, and rough; the large and
small branches grow straddling, and zig-zagged.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The double Cup.

2. A Flower spread open, with the threads remaining.

3. The Chives cut open, and magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, magnified.


As a lively, but little, green-house plant, this species of Mallow has
not many equals; and its property of continuing to flower from June,
till December, must considerably enhance its value. It is a native of
the Cape of Good Hope, and was introduced to us, about four years since.
Most collections now possess it, from its facility of increase, may be
planted in rich earth, and is increased by cuttings, or seeds, which
ripen perfectly in this country. The drawing was made at the Nursery,
Hammersmith.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXIII.

GARDENIA TUBIFLORA.

_Tube-flowered Gardenia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, superum, laciniis erectis,
persistentibus.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus cylindricus, calyce
longior; limbus planus, quinquepartitus.

STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ quinque, ore tubi insertæ, lineares,
striatæ, longitudine dimidia limbi.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus filiformis seu clavatus. Stigma
exsertum, ovatum, obtusum, bilobum, sæpe sulcatum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca sicca, uni bis seu-quadrilocularis.

SEMINA plurima, depressa, per series imbricatim sibi imposita.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-cleft, above, segments upright,
permanent.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube cylindrical, longer than the cup;
border flat, five divisions.

CHIVES. Threads none. Tips five, fixed into the mouth of the tube,
linear, striped, half the length of the border.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft thread-shaped or club-shaped. Summit
standing out, egg-shaped, obtuse, two-lobed, often furrowed.

SEED-VESSEL. A dry berry, one, two, or four-celled.

SEEDS many, flattened, lying upon one another in tiers.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gardenia inermis; foliis elipticis, undulatis, floribus ternis; corollæ
laciniis tortis, linearibus, reflexis, tubo filiformi, longissimo.

Gardenia without thorns; with eliptical, undulated leaves; flowers grow
by threes; the segments of the blossom are twisted, linear, reflexed,
the tube thread shaped, very long.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup and Seed-bud.

2. A Blossom cut open, with the Chives remaining at the mouth.

3. The Shaft and its Summit, the summit detached and magnified.


The Tube-flowered Gardenia was introduced to Britain, in the year 1789,
from Sierra Leone, and must, therefore, be treated as a tender hot-house
plant. It grows, with us, to the height of about two feet before it
flowers; and, from the beauty and size of the leaves, the regular,
opposite manner in which it forms its branches, becomes a very handsome
shrub. The flowers, which are produced in July, grow generally three
together, at right angles, from the insertion of the leaves, in a bunch,
which lasts about six or eight days, having but one flower open and
perfect at a time, the decaying ones becoming brown. It is propagated,
with ease, by cuttings, made in the month of March, and kept under a
bell-glass, in a pot of stiffish loam, in the bark-bed of the hot-house,
or a melon frame. The agreeable character, of a delicate fragrance,
attendant on the blossoms of most species of this genus, is eminently
powerful in this. Our drawing was made at the Hammersmith nursery;
where, it was first raised, from seeds received in a present, by Messrs.
Lee and Kennedy, from the Hon. Sierra Leone Company.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXIV.

PERGULARIA MINOR.

_Smaller Pergularia, or West-coast Creeper._


CLASS XX. ORDER VI. _of Linn. Gen. Plan. 1764._

_GYNANDRIA DECANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, erectum, acutum,
persistens.

COROLLA monopetala, hypocrateriformis; tubus cylindricus, calyce
longior; limbus quinquepartitus, planus; laciniis oblongis.

_Nectarium_, duplex; _exterium_ quinquefidum, quinquedentatum,
plicato-angulatum, dentibus acutis, incurvis, apice corniculis
nutantibus, approximatis; _interium_ quinquefidum, exteriori basi
adnatum, squamulæ membranaceæ, apice denticulatæ, obtusæ, singula
involvens stamina duo, alterna.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, capillaria, brevia, divaricata, per paria
adnexa glandulis quinque stigmati affixis. Antheræ pellucidæ, luteæ,
subrotundæ.

PISTILLUM. Germina duo oblonga. Stylus brevissimus, carnosus. Stigma
corpusculum conicum, obtusum, carnosum.

PERICARPIUM. Folliculi duo, uniloculares, introrsum dehiscentes per
longitudinem.

SEMINA numerosa, parva, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-cleft, upright, pointed and remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, salver-shaped; tube cylindrical, longer than the cup;
border five-divided, flat, segments oblong.

_Honey-cup_, double; _the outer_, five-cleft, five-toothed, plaited into
angles, with the teeth pointed, incurved, approaching at the point by
small nodding horns; the _inner_ five-cleft, growing to the base of the
outer, scales skinny, toothed at the end, blunt, each covering two
opposite chives.

CHIVES. Threads ten, hair-like, short, straddling, connected by pairs to
five glands fixed to the summit. Tips transparent, yellow, roundish.

POINTAL. Seed-buds two, oblong. Shaft very short, fleshy. Summit a
conical, obtuse, fleshy substance.

SEED-VESSEL. Two follicles, one-valved, splitting lengthways from the
inside.

SEEDS numerous, small, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pergularia foliis cordatis, acutis, apicibus tortis; laciniis corollæ
ovatis, erectis, luteis.

Pergularia with heart shaped leaves, sharp-pointed and twisted at the
ends; the segments of the blossom are egg-shaped, upright, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A flower cut open.

3. The parts of fructification magnified.

4. Two Scales of the honey-cup as they are attached together, magnified.

5. An outer Scale magnified.

6. An inner Scale magnified.

7. The Seed-buds, Shaft, Summit, and Chives magnified.


That a just judgment may be formed, upon what grounds we have taken up a
specific distinction, between the only two species we possess of this
genus; so dissimilar in our opinion, but, which have been considered as
scarcely to be deemed varieties, by much abler botanists than ourselves
profess to be; we have given the figures of both in consequence. Much is
it to be regretted, that the whole natural order of plants forming the
Apocineæ of Jussieu, so charactered in themselves, have not undergone a
proper revision, in classification, upon the original Linnæan sexual
principles; which, we must suppose, have been left in the present
bewildered chaos, from the intricacy, singularity and minuteness of the
parts, being so difficult to develope. From critical and actual
observations, taken from the living plants, we are in hopes of being
able to illustrate, and correct where necessary, the characters of such
as may come under our review.

Upon the changing the class of this genus, there needs no comment; as
most authors seem to allow, though they have not followed the hint, that
it is properly Gynandrous; although they have not equally agreed as to
the Order; some taking the glands, surrounding the summit, for the
chives, and some, for the summits themselves, of a columnar shaft. Dr.
Smith, who has figured our other species, has justly taken, the parts
fixed to the five glands, for what they certainly are; as may be easily
traced through the whole order of Orchideæ, where the chives are nearly
similarly placed and so hooded.

The Genus is by no means new, in name, having been so titled by Linnæus,
from the names of Pergulans and Pergulanus of Burman and Rumphius; who
derived them from the use made of the plants by the natives, of the
western coast of the peninsula of India; where, they are cultivated to
form arbors, for the agreeable flavour of their flowers. This species
was first introduced about the year 1784, by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart.
some time before the other species; wherefore, we have given it the
preference. It is propagated by cuttings, and should be treated in the
same manner as directed for the Cratæva capparoides of our last Number,
to have it flower in perfection. The figures of both species were taken,
in August, from two plants in the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington
Gore; where, Mr. Anderson (to whom we must beg our sincere
acknowledgments for his frequent and ready observations and assistance)
informs us, they are treated in such manner.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXV.

PERGULARIA ODORATISSIMA.

_Sweet Pergularia, or Chinese Creeper._


CLASS XX. ORDER VI. _of Linn. Gen. Plant. 1764._

_GYNANDRIA DECANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CONTORTA. Nectarium duplex, genitalia involvens; squamulæ _exteriores_
quinque, cuspidatæ; quinque _interiores_, membranaceæ, singula squamula
occultans stamina duo alterna.

COROLLA hypocrateriformis.

CONTORT. Honey-cup double, concealing the parts of fructification; the
_outer_ scales are five, and spear-shaped; the five _inner_ are skinny,
each scale covering two alternate chives.

BLOSSOM salver-shaped.

See PERGULARIA MINOR, Pl. CLXXXIV. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pergularia foliis cordatis, senioribus subtomentosis; laciniis corollæ
margine revolutis, tortis, linearibus, reflexis, viridibus.

Pergularia with heart-shaped leaves, the older ones rather downy; the
segments of the blossom rolled back at the margin, twisted, linear,
reflexed, and green.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom.

3. The same, cut open.

4. The parts of fructification, as they appear when covered by the
honey-cups, magnified.

5. The outer scale of the Honey-cup, magnified.

6. The inner scale of the Honey-cup, magnified.

7. The two Scales, as they are connected together at the base.

8. The Pointal, with the Chives; the Shaft, Summit, and Chives, with the
bodies connecting the Chives, detached and magnified.


This species of Pergularia is a native of China, from whence it was
received in the year 1789, by Lady Hume; in whose collection at
Wormleybury, Herts, it first flowered in 1791. It is cultivated and
increased in the same manner as the P. minor, and is equally fragrant.
We have little doubt that our two species comprise four, of the
different authors who have collated from each other; we shall take the
last, Willdenow. The P. glabra and P. Japonica as our P. minor; and the
P. purpurea and tomentosa as our P. odoratissima. The P. edulis of
Thunberg is certainly Cynanchum.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXVI.

IXIA SPECIOSA.

_Deep crimson Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpetala, patens, æqualis. Stamina tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, equal. Chives three, upright spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliis linearibus, medio costatis, gramineis; scapus biflorus,
filiformis; corollis sub-campanulatis, profunde coccineis.

Ixia with linear leaves ribbed in the middle and grassy; flower-stem
two-flowered and thread-shaped; blossoms rather bell-shaped and of a
deep crimson.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Flower cut open.

3. The Pointal, one of the tips magnified.


Although this species is not scarce, yet, from the general method of
treating it, that is, by giving it no more heat than has been found
necessary for the generality of Cape Ixias, few have seen its blossoms,
though they possess the roots. To ensure their flowering, as soon as the
bulbs are well rooted, which will be about January, if planted in
October; they may be then put into the heat of a melon or cucumber
frame, or taken into the hothouse, where they will flower about the
latter end of May. This Ixia was first introduced, from Holland, about
the year 1778, under the name of Ixia Kermosina speciosa; and, under
that title, is to be found, in most collections; wherefore, considering
it a distinct species, having drawings of two varieties, we have
continued the specific name of speciosa. Our drawing was made at the
Hammersmith nursery, in May 1799.

[Illustration]




PLATE CLXXXVII.

ECHITES SUBERECTA.

_Oval-leaved Echites._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum, acutum, parvum.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; limbus quinquefidus, planus,
patentissimus.

_Nectarium_ glandulis quinque, germen circumstantibus.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, tenuia, erecta. Antheræ rigidæ, oblongæ,
acuminatæ, apice convergentes.

PISTILLUM. Germina duo. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum. Stigma
oblongo-capitatum, bilobum, glutine antheris adnexum.

PERICARPIUM. Folliculi duo, longissimi, uniloculares, univalves.

SEMINA plurima, imbricata, coronata pappo longo.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-parted, pointed, and small.

BLOSSOM one-petal, funnel-shaped; border five-cleft, flat and spreading
very much.

_Honey-cup_ five glands, standing round the bud.

CHIVES. Five threads, slender, erect. Tips stiff, oblong, tapered, and
closing together at the top.

POINTAL. Seed-buds two. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the chives.
Summit oblong-headed, two-lobed, attached to the tips by a glutinous
substance.

SEED-VESSEL. Two follicles, very long, one celled, one valved.

SEEDS many tiled, crowned with a long feather.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Echites pedunculis racemosis; foliis ovalibus, obtusis, mucronatis;
floribus luteis, amplissimis; corollæ tubus hirsutus.

Echites with bunched foot-stalks; leaves oval, blunt and pointed at the
ends; flowers yellow and very large; the tube of the blossom hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. A Flower cut open, with the chives remaining, but detached from each
other.

3. The Chives and Pointal as they are in the flower, the lower part of
the blossom remaining, the upper cut away, magnified.

4. One of the Chives a little magnified.

5. The Pointal and Seed-buds, magnified.


The Lady Dowager De Clifford received this plant from the island of St.
Vincent’s, in the year 1794; and we much question, whether it was ever
seen in Britain prior to that period; although said to be cultivated in
1759, by Millar, in the 7th Edit. of his Dictionary, and from thence,
collated into the Kew Catalogue, p. 289, Vol. I. It is a climbing plant,
if supported; but does not grow to any considerable height, if kept in a
pot. The best method of treating this plant, is the same as that
proposed for the Cratæva capparoides, Pl. 176. Vol. III. The specific
name Suberecta, of Jacquin and Browne, must undoubtedly have been taken
from the plants which grow in the Savannas; where, they seldom acquire
above the height of two feet. The whole plant, from which, if any part
is cut or broken, there issues a milky substance, is considered by Dr.
Browne as poisonous. Our figure was taken at Messrs. Lee and Kennedy’s,
this year, in August. It is propagated by cuttings, put in about the
month of May.

[Illustration]





PLATE CLXXXVIII.

GLADIOLUS CAMPANULATUS.

_Bell-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

STAMINA adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

CHIVES ascending.

See Pl. XI. Vol. I. GLADIOLUS ROSEUS.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis lanceolatis, nervosis, glabris; scapo subtrifloro,
foliis longior; corolla sub-campanulata, palidè purpurea, laciniis
sub-æqualibus; stigmatibus bifidis.

Gladiolus with lance-shaped leaves, nerved and smooth; flower-stem
mostly three-flowered, longer than the leaves; blossom rather
bell-shaped, of a pale purple, the segments nearly equal, with the
summits two-cleft.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Sheaths of the Empalement.

2. A Flower spread open, with the Chives attached.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, one Summit detached and magnified.


The Bell-flowered Gladiolus, was amongst the number of those imported
from Holland, in the year 1794, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith;
when they partook of that large collection, brought to Haarlem by a
Frenchman; who had been long resident at the Cape of Good Hope, where he
had cultivated most of the bulbs prior to his bringing them to Europe.
Nothing particular is required for the management of this, more than the
most common of the Genus, from the Cape. It flowers in May, and
increases by the root; the seeds rarely ripen.

[Illustration]





PLATE CLXXXIX.

ZINNIA VERTICILLATA.

_Double Zinnia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

RECEPTACULUM paleaceum. Pappus aristis 2 erectis. Calyx
ovato-cylindricus, imbricatus. Flosculi radii 5, persistentes, integri.

RECEPTACLE chaffy. Feather with 2 upright awns. Empalement
cylindrical-egg-shaped, and tiled. Florets of the ray 5, remaining and
entire.

See ZINNIA VIOLACEA. Pl. LV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Zinnia foliis verticillatis, sessilibus; floribus pedunculatis; flosculi
radii sæpe tria series.

Zinnia with leaves growing in whorls without foot-stalks close to the
stem; flowers with foot-stalks; the florets of the ray often three rows.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer female Floret of the ray, the seed attached, a little larger
than nature.

2. An inner hermaphrodite Floret of the disk, with its seed and skinny
chaff, magnified.

3. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed of an hermaphrodite Floret, divested of
its corolla, magnified.


The English specific title to this plant, should seem to imply, that the
flowers are such, as should not come into our arrangement; but, as the
character is not constant in all the flowers, even on the same plant, it
cannot be considered but as a specific character in this particular
species, though the name has its proper force, in contradistinction to
its congeners, in our language. It is a native of Mexico, South America;
and was introduced to our gardens about the year 1789, by Monsʳ Richard,
from the Paris gardens, at the same time with the Virgilia; a most
beautiful annual, of the habit of Arctotis, now lost in both countries
from the difficulty of procuring ripened seeds. It is to be raised in
the same manner as the other species, on a gentle hot-bed, in March, and
planted out the beginning of May. The flowers make their appearance
about the beginning of August, and continue, in succession, till they
are destroyed by the frost. To be certain of the seed, the heads must be
taken from the plant, whilst they appear yet fresh; as the petals are
persistent, and have not the appearance of entire decay, though the seed
is nearly ripe; for if the receptacle once begins to rot, (which it is
very subject to,) the seeds are immediately contaminated and spoilt. Our
figure was taken, this year, at the Hammersmith Nursery, where, it was
grown first in this kingdom.

[Illustration]





PLATE CXC.

GERANIUM ASTRAGALIFOLIUM.

_Astragalus-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

One POINTAL. Five Summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns; five dry berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

GERANIUM foliis pinnatis, hirsutis, foliolis rotundato-ovatis; calycibus
monophyllis; petalis undulatis ad basin tortis; staminibus quinque
fertilibus; radice tuberosa.

GERANIUM with winged, hairy leaves; leaflets of a roundish-oval shape;
cups one-leaved; petals waved, twisted at the base; five fertile chives;
root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives spread open and magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, magnified.


By the Kew Catalogue we are informed, that this species of Geranium, was
introduced to this country, in the year 1788, by Mr. F. Masson. It is,
like many of this branch of the extended family of Geranium, rather a
tender Green-house plant; and will not flower, in perfection, without
the assistance of the Hot-house. It loses its foliage after flowering,
and remains in a state of inaction for at least three months; during
which period, it should be watered but seldom, and that sparingly. To
propagate it, the only mode is, by cutting small portions of the root
off, and putting them into the strong heat of a hot-bed, about the month
of March; as hitherto, it has not perfected any seeds with us, and the
plant produces no branch, except the flower-stem may be so denominated.
Our drawing was made from the Clapham Collection, in July, this year.
This species has been considered by Professor Martyn, (see his edition
of Mill. Dict. article Pelargonium 2.) as the same with G. pinnatum, and
G. prolificum of Linn. Sp. Plan. But, however, the specific characters
in Linnæus, of those species, may agree with our figure, the G.
Astragalifolium of Jacquin and Cavanilles, they are, unquestionably, all
different plants; drawings of the two former we have, and will be given
in due course.

[Illustration]





PLATE CXCI.

PLATYLOBIUM SCOLOPENDRUM.

_Scolopendra-like stemmed Flat-Pea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two Sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium, campanulatum quinquedentatum; laciniis tribus
inferioribus acutis, patentibus; duabus supremis maximis, obtusis,
obovatis, vexillo adpressis.

COROLLA papilionacea.

_Vexillum_, obcordatum, emarginatum, erectum, maximum.

_Alæ_ vexillo breviores, obtusæ, semi-obcordatæ, basi denticulatæ.

_Carina_ obtusa, compressa, longitudine et figura alarum.

STAMINA filamenta decem, coalita in vaginam, supra semifissam, apice
libera, æqualia, assurentia. Antheræ subrotundæ, versatiles.

PISTILLUM. Germen lineare, pilosum. Stylus incurvatus, glaber. Stigma
simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen pedicellatum, compressum, obtusum, mucronatum,
uniloculare, dorso alatum.

SEMINA, plurima, compressa, reniformia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup bell-shaped, five-toothed; the three lower segments
pointed, spreading; the two upper very large, obtuse, pressed to the
standard.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped.

_Standard_, inversely heart-shaped, notched at the end, upright, very
large.

_Wings_ shorter than the standard, obtuse, half inversely heart-shaped,
toothed at the base.

_Keel_, obtuse, flattened, the length and shape of the wings.

CHIVES. Ten threads, united into a sheath, half cleft on the upper side,
separate at the top, equal and turned upwards. Tips roundish, versatile.

POINTAL. Seed-bud linear, hairy. Shaft turned inwards, smooth. Summit
simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Pod with a footstalk, flattened, obtuse, with a small
point, one-celled, winged along the back.

SEEDS many, flattened, kidney-shape.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Platylobium foliis ovatis, glabris; ramis ramulisque compressis, alatis,
margine, cicatrisatis, floribus solitariis.

Flat-pea with egg-shaped smooth leaves, larger and smaller branches
flat, winged and hatched at the edges; flowers solitary.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size.

2. The Standard of the blossom.

3. One of the Wings of the blossom.

4. The two petals of the Keel.

5. The Chives and Pointal, with part of the cup, magnified.

6. The Seed-bud magnified.


This Genus of plants was first named by Dr. Smith, in the Linn. Trans.
Vol. II. 350, from the P. formosum, which he afterwards figured in the
New-Holland specimens, Tab. VI. Our species was introduced, to Britain,
in the year 1792, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy. It is a hardy greenhouse
plant; but has not, hitherto, been increased in this country. It must be
planted in very sandy peat earth, and not much watered, in winter, as
too much wet is apt to destroy it. The young branches, which in the old
plant appear much more like leaves, (as seldom any leaves are produced
from the upper part of the plant, after a certain age,) are very tender;
but in time become as tough as leather, and are almost equally pliable.
Our drawing was taken in May 1799, from a plant, we believe, the first
that flowered in England, in the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]





PLATE CXCII.

ANTHOLYZA FULGENS.

_Refulgent-flowered Antholyza._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA tubulosa, irregularis, recurvata. Capsula infera.

BLOSSOM tubular, irregular and bent backward. Capsule beneath.

See ANTHOLYZA RINGENS, Pl. XXXII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Antholyza floribus tubiformibus, curvatis, coccineis, fulgentibus;
laciniis corollæ maximis, patentibus; foliis longissimis, glabris, basi
attenuatis.

Antholyza with trumpet-shaped flowers, curved, scarlet, and refulgent;
the segments of the blossom very large, spreading; leaves very long,
smooth, and tapered at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Part of a Leaf, cut from the upper part.

2. The two sheaths of the Empalement.

3. The Flower cut open, with the chives attached.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud; one of the summits detached and magnified.


This most beautiful genus does not possess amongst its numerous species,
(drawings of twenty-two of which we have) a rival to A. fulgens;
whether, for the size of the plant, which grows to the height of three
feet, or the extreme brilliancy of its blossoms, which frequently make a
spike near a foot in length. The roots should not be taken from the
pots, but shifted into fresh earth annually, which may be a composition
of half sandy peat, and half loam, as the leaves do not decay, until
fresh ones are produced. Our figure was taken at the Hammersmith
Nursery, in May 1800, to which it was first brought, from the Cape of
Good Hope, in 1792. It increases by the root.

In a cotemporary, and something similar publication to our own, we were
sorry to observe, a rising itch to do away, what, under the conduct of
its original scientific proprietor, was allowed by all, to constitute
its chief merit and utility; especially to those, “_who wish to become
scientifically acquainted with the plants they cultivate_.” The late Mr.
Curtis, pursuing the path he planned, with rigour, to prevent confusion,
and avoid as much as possible the greatest difficulty of the science;
seldom altered a commonly known, or established name; unless absolutely
necessary to systematic arrangement. We were naturally led to these
obvious observations, from the hints thrown out in the last Number of
the Bot. Mag. in which, the A. tubulosa of all the collections, which
possess the plant, and so named and figured by us, in the preceding
Number of the Botanists Repository, has a new generic and specific
title; and in which a gentleman “_with INFINITE skill_” of the name of
Gawler, the acknowledged father of the innovation, is spoken of as
qualified to scrutinize and rectify the “_errors, false synonims, and
blunders upon blunders, which have from carelessness_, &c.” crept into
the, of course, insignificant labours of a Linnæus, a Jacquin, a
Thunberg, a Willdenow, or a Curtis. It may perhaps be an acquisition to
the science, that, since such confusion prevails amongst “_the most
learned Botanists_,” from their “_acknowledged inability to determine
those plants_;” which, nevertheless, they have all foolishly attempted
to do, we have one at last, whose “_scrutinizing_” eye “_has been able
to make out all Linnæus’s and even Thunberg’s species_.” This
elucidation, of so intricate a subject, by a person whose knowledge of
living plants, we fear, does not lead him, scarcely, to an
acquaintanceship with the difference of face in a Plane from a Poplar,
must be matter of infinite moment, to those, “_who wish to become
acquainted with the plants they cultivate_;” and the small trouble, to
most persons, of learning new, and ousting the old names for plants,
which have been long rivetted to the memory by habitual use, will be
amply compensated, by the pleasure of novelty, which must necessarily
result, from the certain alteration in some part of the title, of every
plant which has hitherto, or is to come under, this learned judge’s
dictatorial fiat. Our opinions, as do our labours, run counter to these
new fashions, of rendering a difficult science easy; and our road must
still be in the old track of the trifler Linnæus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCIII.

GERANIUM LINEARE.

_Linear-petalled Geranium_.


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS rostratus, 5-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns; five dry berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

GERANIUM foliis lanceolatis, obtusis, subsinuatis; petalis subæqualibus,
linearibus; floribus pentandris; radice tuberosa.

GERANIUM with leaves lance-shaped, obtuse, and a little scolloped at the
edges; petals nearly equal, linear; flowers with five fertile chives;
root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its hollow structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal natural size.

3. The Chives spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, magnified.


This is another of those curious tuberous Geraniums, which have been
introduced to this country, by Mr. Niven; who was sent to the Cape of
Good Hope by G. Hibbert, Esq. for the sole purpose of enriching his
Gardens and Herbarium, (now, we presume, the first in Europe) with the
vegetable productions of that country. It has no apparent difference, in
habit, to require any other treatment than has been mentioned in the
former part of this work, as necessary to the rest of its congeners. Our
drawing was taken, from the Clapham Collection, in July 1801; the roots
having been received the preceding autumn.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCIV.

HEMEROCALLIS ALBA.

_White Day-Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA campanulata; tubo cylindrico. Stamina declinata.

BLOSSOM bell-shaped; tube cylindrical. Chives declining.

See HEMEROCALLIS CÆRULEA, Pl. VI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hemerocallis foliis cordatis, petiolatis; corolla alba, tubo longissimo.

Day-Lily with heart-shaped leaves that have foot-stalks; blossom white,
tube very long.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives and Pointal, as they are placed in the flower.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.

3. A ripe Seed-vessel of its natural size.

4. The Seed-vessel cut transversely, to shew the situation and number of
the cells and valves.

5. A ripe Seed, natural size.


The White Day-Lily is from the same country, and of the same date in our
gardens, as the Blue; figured in the First Vol. Pl. VI. and was
introduced through the same medium. It is herbaceous, and generally
flowers, if kept in the hot-house, about August; having that true and
constant character of the genus, and from which it had its name, the
producing but one solitary, perfect flower, per diem, till all the
blossoms on the spike are exhausted; which, in this species, are much
more abundant than in any of the others. It is increased by the root or
seed.

This plant, we presume, is the same as those specified under the
different titles of Lilium Longiflorum, and L. Japonicum, in Willdenow’s
new edition of the Species Plant.; the L. candidum, and L. Japonicum, of
Thunberg’s Japan; and the L. Longiflorum of the Linn. Trans. Vol. II. P.
333. The Hemerocallis formerly figured by us, under the specific title
of Cærulea, we take to be, the Hemerocallis Japonica, and Lilium
Cordifolium of Willdenow; the H. Cordata of Thunberg’s Japan; and the
Hemerocallis Japonica, and Lilium Cordifolium of the Linn. Trans. Vol.
II. p. 332. Willdenow, who had never seen even dried specimens of the
plants in question, has hence been led to place the same plant, under
different genera; and to consider the Hemerocallis of the Botanists
Repository, as only a variety of H. Japonica, but still admitting it as
an Hemerocallis. Now, as we have no doubt, (nor do we think any one can,
that will take the trouble to examine the dissections given with each
figure,) that if the one is an Hemerocallis, the other must be admitted
of the same family; so, have we made no scruple in rejecting the generic
name of Lilium, for the present plant; although we would gladly have
adopted the specific one of Longiflora, had not that of Alba, already
obtained so generally in our gardens; a rule, for our direction,
paramount to all others as to specific denomination.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCV.

HYPOXIS OBLIQUA.

_Oblique-leaved Hypoxis._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sex-partita, persistens, supera. Capsula basi angustior. Spatha
bivalvis.

BLOSSOM six-parted, remaining, above. Capsule narrower at the base.
Sheath two-valved.

See HYPOXIS STELLATA. Pl. CI. Vol. II.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hypoxis scapo subtrifloro, piloso, longitudine foliorum; pedunculis
flore triplo longioribus; foliis lineari-lanceolatis, oblique flexis,
glabris; radice fibrosa.

Hypoxis with mostly three flowers on the stem, which is hairy, the
length of the leaves; foot-stalks three times the length of the flower;
leaves linearly lance-shaped, obliquely bent downward, smooth; root
fibrous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal of the Blossom, with its Chive, as attached to its base.

2. The Seed-bud, on its foot-stalk, with a part of the tube of the
blossom, to which the Chives are fixed.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, magnified.


This species of Hypoxis is from the Cape of Good Hope; and, we believe,
solely in the possession of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham; from whose
collection our drawing was made, in June, this year, 1801. It appears to
be a hardy green-house plant; but, is certainly more curious than
handsome, and, from its general character, we should judge the
propagation would be from the root.

Professor Jacquin has given the Hypoxis Obliqua in his Icones Plantarum
Rariorum, 2. t. 371; and in his Supplement to the Collectanea, 54; but,
we must suppose from a more vigorous specimen than ours; as, the
appearance of a woolly character, at the margin of the leaves, was not
to be traced in our plant, although every other part is exact.
Wherefore, we have retained his name, though we have rejected the latter
part of his specific character, to introduce one, which we consider, of
more consequence, as opposed to those with bulbous roots, this being
fibrous.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCVI.

IXIA MACULATA.

_Spotted-flowered Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis.

STAMINA tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6 petals, spreading, equal.

CHIVES three, upright, spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliis ensiformibus, glabris, scapo duplo brevioribus; floribus
alternis, sub-spicatis; petalis basi obscuris, ovatis, concavis;
stigmatibus bifidis.

Ixia with sword-shaped, smooth leaves, half the length of the
flower-stem; flowers alternate, rather spiked; petals dark at the base,
egg-shaped and concave; summits two-cleft.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the Empalement.

2. A Flower cut and spread open, with the Chives in their natural
station.

3. The Pointal complete, with one of the Summits detached and magnified.


This Ixia has been long cultivated in Britain, so says Millar, &c. but,
till within these few years, we have not seen it in our gardens; perhaps
it has been (like many others) lost to us, and recently introduced with
the multitude of other species, which now decorate our green-houses;
either from the Cape of Good Hope or Holland. It is one of the most
desirable of the genus, from the length of time it continues in flower;
which is, at least a month, from the first flowers beginning to expand.
It increases by the bulb, and is to be cultivated as other common Ixias.
Flowers in May or June.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCVII.

NYMPHÆA CŒRULEA.

_Blue Water-Lily._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium inferum, tetraphyllum, magnum, supra coloratum,
persistens.

COROLLA. Petala numerosa (quindecem sæpe,) germinis lateri insidentia,
serie plus quam simplici.

STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa (septuaginta sæpe,) plana, curva, obtusa,
brevia. Antheræ oblongæ, filamentorum margini adnatæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, magnum. Stylus nullus. Stigma orbiculatum,
planum, peltato-sessile, radiis notatum, margine crenatum, persistens.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca dura, ovata, carnosa, rudis, collo angustata apice
coronata, multilocularis (decem ad quindecem loculis,) pulpa plena.

SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup beneath, four leaved, large, coloured above, permanent.

BLOSSOM. Petals numerous (often fifteen,) placed on the side of the
seed-bud, in more than one row.

CHIVES. Threads numerous (often seventy,) flat, curved, blunt, short.
Tips oblong, fixed to the margin of the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, large. Shaft, none. Summit round, flat,
central, sitting, marked in rays, scolloped at the edge, remaining.

SEED-VESSEL. Berry hard, egg-shaped, fleshy, rough, narrowed at the
neck, crowned at the top, many-celled (from ten to fifteen cells,) full
of pulp.

SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Nymphæa foliis cordato-orbiculatis, senioribus crenatis, lobis acutis
imbricatis, acuminatis; petalis acutis, lanceolatis, cæruleis.

Nymphæa with between heart-shaped and round leaves, the old ones
scolloped, lobes sharp, tiled, and tapered; petals sharp, lance-shaped,
and blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Chive.

2. The Seed-bud and Summit.

3. The Seed-bud, cut transversely, to shew the number of cells.


Amongst aquatic or water plants, the Nymphæas are undoubtedly the most
desirable in cultivation; although, we should agree to the exclusion of
N. Nelumbo, &c. now forming a distinct genus in the Sp. Plant. of
Willdenow; taken from Usteri’s Ed. of Jussieu’s Gen. Plant. classed from
the natural characters, under the title of Nelumbium’s. This plant may
be kept in the green-house, or hot-house, in a large tub filled with
water and a small portion of mud at the bottom. It propagates by the
root, and the flowers, which are extremely fragrant, are produced in
August, in which month, this year, our drawing was made, from a large
plant in the Hibbertian collection; but, from an omission in the figure,
we were obliged to finish the plate from a plant, in the collection of
J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, still in flower, the beginning of
October. The leaves of this species are most beautifully scolloped, and
near a foot in diameter; but the indentitions are scarcely to be
perceived in the younger; one of which, as we could not introduce the
larger, is shewn on the plate of the natural size.

It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was introduced to the Royal
Gardens, Kew, by Mr. F. Masson, about the year 1792.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCVIII.

BAUERA RUBIOIDES.

_Three-leaved Bauera._


CLASS XIII. ORDER II.

_POLYANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Many Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium octophyllum, foliolis persistentibus, acuminatis,
reflexis, dentatis.

COROLLA. Petala octo, ovata, concava, patentia, æqualia, calyce majora.

STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, capillaria, corolla breviora, receptaculo
inserta. Antheræ latiusculæ, obtusæ, erectæ.

PISTILLA. Germen subovatum, villosum. Styli duo, filiformes, longi,
apice curvati. Stigmata simplicia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, pilosa, apice dehiscens, bilocularis,
bivalvis.

SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup eight-leaved, remaining, leaflets tapered, reflexed, and
toothed.

BLOSSOM. Eight petals, egg-shaped, concave, spreading, equal, larger
than the cup.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, hair-like, shorter than the blossom, fixed
into the receptacle. Tips broadish, obtuse and erect.

POINTALS. Seed-bud nearly egg-shaped, hairy. Shafts two, thread-shaped,
long, curved at the ends. Summits simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, hairy, splitting at the top, two cells,
two valves.

SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Bauera foliis ternatis, apice dentatis, sessilibus, oppositis.

Bauera with leaves composed of three leaflets, toothed at the point,
growing close to the stem, and opposite.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with the Chives and Pointal.

2. The Chives and Pointal magnified.

3. The Empalement, Seed-bud, Shafts, and Summits, magnified.

4. The Seed-bud cut transversely, with the seeds in the cells,
magnified.


This handsome shrub, a native of Port Jackson, New Holland, was first
raised at the seat of the Hon. the Marchioness of Rockingham,
Hillingdon, Middlesex, in the year 1793; and, from a plant, in the
conservatory, still in flower, this present month November, our drawing
was made, at the Nursery, Hammersmith. It is hardy, although delicate in
structure, and flourishes in the green-house. The stem of the plant from
which our figure was taken, although the oldest in the kingdom, and near
six feet high, is scarce the thickness of a quill at the base, therefore
must be supported. The young shoots and leaves are covered with a slight
pile; the smaller branches stand out at right angles, proceeding from
the insertion of the leaves, and the whole plant has, at first sight,
much the appearance of a Rubus. It is propagated by cuttings, made in
the month of March, and put under a small bell-glass on the heat of a
hot-bed; the cuttings should be from the extreme ends of the young
shoots. Sir J. Banks, Bart. P. R. S. &c. from whose natural genius and
love for the science, and by whose fostering and liberal hand to promote
it, the study of Botany has become so general a taste; has named this
genus, in honour of two most eminent Botanical painters, of the name of
Bauer, natives of Germany, and brothers. The one, now under the
immediate patronage of Sir Joseph, as Botanical Painter to his Majesty
at Kew; well known for his superb and excellent coloured engravings of
Heaths, &c. in large folio. The younger considered no less able, engaged
under the same influence, with the other artists, &c. who are now upon
the last expedition for discovery to the South Sea; but not equally
known to Botanists, as the person who accompanied the late Dr.
Sibthorpe, on his voyages through Greece; and whose pencil has produced
all those drawings, designed to decorate and illustrate the famous Flora
Græca, preparing for the public, under the auspices of the intelligent
Dr. Smith, P. L. S. &c. &c.

[Illustration]




PLATE CXCIX.

CAMELLIA JAPONICA. _Var. flo. rubro pleno._

_Double red Camellia._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI. _of Schreber’s 6th edit. of Gen. Plant._

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX imbricatus, polyphyllus; foliolis interioribus majoribus.

EMPALEMENT tiled, many-leaved; the inner leaflets the largest.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER OF VARIETY.

Camellia foliis senioribus basi attenuatis, junioribus rubentibus;
petalis interioribus divaricato-erectis; floribus plenis, rubris.

Camellia with the older leaves tapered at the base, the younger ones
reddish; the inner petals stand upright spreading different ways;
flowers double and red.


Again have we to call upon the indulgence of our Botanical friends for
their sufferance, in a third intrusion on the forms of our own
prescription. But, as we had given the two other varieties of this fine
plant; and taking it for granted, by judging from our own feelings, that
a figure of this very scarce variety would be agreeable to most; that
they might be (by comparison) able to decide upon the difference which
does exist, but has been denied by many, between this, and the Striped
Var.; see our figure, Vol. II. Pl. XCI. It has been thought by most, who
have not seen this plant; that it was but the Striped Var. which had
lost its variegation. This is certainly not the case; for, it stands as
distinct from the Striped, as from the White variety; which may be
readily traced, either from the plants themselves, or our figures; by
comparing the specific, or rather differing character we have assigned
to each. The Double red Camellia was introduced about the year 1794 from
China, by R. Preston, Esq. Woodford, Essex.

The largest plant now in Europe, of this variety, is in the select and
most valuable collection of the Hon. T. Greville, Esq. Paddington,
imported, last year, from China in the highest perfection. It is
propagated by cuttings, or layers; and delights in a light, sandy loam;
with about one-third of the pot, from the bottom, filled with peat
earth. It flowers from November, till February, in the Hothouse; or from
January, till April, if kept in the Green-house. Our figure was taken,
in November, this year, at the Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CC.

MELALEUCA HYPERICIFOLIA.

_St. John’s-wort-leaved Melaleuca._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads in many Sets. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX quinquefidus, semisuperus. Petals quinque. Filamenta multa,
longissima, connata in quinque corpora. Pistillum unum. Capsula
trilocularis.

CUP five-cleft, half above. Petals five. Threads numerous, very long,
united into five bodies. Pointal one. Capsule three-celled.

See MELALEUCA ERICÆFOLIA, Pl. CLXXV. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Melaleuca foliis oppositis, eliptico-oblongis, uninerviis; floribus
consertis; filamentis longissimis, linearibus, apice radiato-multifidis.

Melaleuca with opposite leaves, eliptic-oblong, one-nerved; flowers
clustered; threads very long, linear, rayed and many-cleft at the top.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower, natural size.

2. One of the five bundles of Chives, with its petal, to which it is
attached at the base, magnified.

3. The cup, seed-bud, shaft and summit, natural size, the summit
detached and magnified.


About the year 1792 this plant was first raised from seeds, by the late
Mr. William Malcolm, Nurseryman, at Stockwell, Surry; and was, from the
very great resemblance it bears to the St. John’s-worts, so denominated,
until it flowered. It has now become one of the commonest, of what are
generally termed, Botany Bay plants; yet unquestionably ranks with the
handsomest whether for its foliage, form of growth, or flowers, which
are of a most beautiful red-purple, scarcely to be imitated in painting.
The singular manner in which the flower-stem is thrown out, as it were,
from the old wood, in a horizontal direction, is common to many other
species of the Genus. It grows to the height of four or five feet, very
erect in every part; is easily increased by cuttings, and thrives best
in peat earth. Although it is said to grow in swampy grounds in New
South Wales, see Linnæan Transactions, Vol. III. p. 279, nevertheless,
with us, a dry, or damp situation in the green-house, appears equally
congenial to it. In the month of September 1799, our drawing was taken
at the Conservatory of R. James, Esq. Grosvenor Place.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCI.

AIZOON CANARIENSE.

_Purslane-leaved Aizoon._


CLASS XII. ORDER IV.

_ICOSANDRIA PENTAGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. Five Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquepartitum; laciniis lanceolatis,
persistentibus.

COROLLA nulla.

STAMINA. Filamenta plurima, capillaria, sinui calycis per phalanges in
serta. Antheræ simplices.

PISTILLA. Germen pentagonum, superum. Stili quinque, simplices. Stigmata
simplicia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ventricosa, retusa, pentagona, quinquelocularis,
quinque valvis.

SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-parted; segments lance-shaped, remaining.

BLOSSOM none.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, hair-like, inserted into the hollow part of
the cup in bunches. Tips simple.

POINTALS. Seed-bud five-sided, above. Shafts five, simple. Summits
simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule bellied, dented, five-sided, five-celled,
five-valved.

SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Aizoon foliis cuneiformi-ovatis; floribus solitariis, subsessilibus,
axillaribus.

Aizoon with leaves between wedge and egg-shaped; flowers solitary,
growing almost close to the stem from the insertion of the leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement shewn from the inside.

2. The same shewn from the outside.

3. A Chive magnified.

4. The Pointals natural size.

5. The same, magnified.


This plant is herbaceous, and is found near the sea coast, in most parts
of the world, within the tropics. It has a character common to many
Genera of the natural order of succulents, such as Mesembryanthemum,
Crassula, &c. that of an indeterminate number of pointals; which, in
this genus, extend from three, to five, on different plants; this
circumstance not having been sufficiently attended to has unfortunately
occasioned some confusion. Brown in his Natural History of Jamaica has
described it as growing on that Island, and with five pointals,
therefore placed it to its right genus. Plumier, Sloane, &c. treated it
as Portulaca, to which, as the genus now stands, it in no way affines.
Læfling in his Iter Hispanicum, published in 1758, having found the
plant in Spain with three pointals, immediately placed it to another
genus, Halimum; upon whose authority, corroborated by Jacquin, (who
acknowledges a variation in the number of pointals, on different plants,
found in the different Caribee Islands,) Linnæus took up the plant, said
to have but three pointals, under the title Sesuvium. As to the plant
said to be cultivated by Miller in the Hort. Kew: under the last named
genus, we have no difficulty in referring that, to the Aizoon canariense
of the same work; as the time of flowering not being noticed, the
distinction of character could not be observed, and the genus
introduced, taken upon the _gratis dictum_ of Miller. Burmann, in his
Ed: of Rumphius’s plants of Amboyna, has it as Halimus; and Plukenet as
Portulaca from East Indian specimens; with numbers of other Botanists
from different parts; as Ægypt, the Canary Islands, &c. &c. under
different names.

Seeds received from Spain of our plant were sown by Mr. Anderson in
1798, at the gardens of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore; since which time,
it has annually died to the ground, about November, and re-appeared in
Spring; from this circumstance, the great delicacy of the plant, and
having been treated as an annual, it has been repeatedly lost to this
country; though so constantly introduced, in almost every parcel of
seeds which arrives from either the East or West Indies. It may be
increased by cuttings made early in the year, and put in a hot-bed to
accelerate their growth, and should be planted in rich loamy earth. It
flowers from July till September. To preserve it more than one year, it
must be kept in the hot-house.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCII.

SAMYDA SERRULATA.

_Sawed-leaved Samyda._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, interne coloratum; tubus campanulatus,
decemstriatus; limbus quinquefidus, laciniis ovatis planis,
patentissimis, obtusis, duabus acumine auctis.

COROLLA nulla.

_Nectarium_ monophyllum, conicum, truncatum, decemstriatum, longitudine
fere calycis, ejusque limbo ad bann insertum, ore obtuse 10 ad
18-dentato.

STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ decem ad octo-decem, oblongæ, erectæ,
parvæ, dentibus nectarii insidentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus subulatus, erectus, longitudine
nectarii. Stigma capitatum, obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, quadrisulcata, coriacea, crassa,
unilocularis, quadrivalvis.

SEMINA plurima, subovata, obtusa, basi foraminulo notata, valvulis
affixa, obvoluta pellicula pulposa.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, coloured within; tube bell-shaped,
ten-striped; border five-cleft, segments egg-shaped, smooth, very much
spread, obtuse, two lengthened by a pointed end.

BLOSSOM none.

_Honey-cup_, one leaf, conical, appearing cut off, ten-striped, nearly
the length of the cup and fixed to it at the base of the border,
obtusely from 10 to 18-toothed at the mouth.

CHIVES. Threads none. Tips from 10 to 18, oblong, upright, small, fixed
to the teeth of honey-cup.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft awl-shaped, upright, the length of
the honey-cup. Summit headed, blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, four-furrowed, leathery, thick,
one-celled, four valves.

SEEDS many, nearly egg-shaped, blunt, marked with a small hole at the
base, fixed to the valves, surrounded with a slight pulpy skin.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Samyda floribus roseis, dodecandris; foliis ovato-oblongis, serrulatis.

Samyda with rosy coloured flowers having twelve chives; leaves between
egg-shaped and oblong, slightly sawed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with its honey-cup, and the tips, cut and spread
open.

2. The Pointal and seed-bud natural size, the summit detached and
magnified.

3. The Seed-bud cut transversely and magnified, to shew the number of
valves and situation of the seeds.


The Sawed-leaved Samyda is an inhabitant of most of the West India
Islands, but was received in England, about the year 1795, from the
Island of St. Vincent; transmitted from thence, by Mr. Anderson, curator
of the Botanic garden, originally established there, under the sanction
of our government, by Dr. Young. It is a very tender plant, grows to
about three feet in height, making but few small branches, and rather
weak in the stem. Our drawing was taken in July this year at the garden
of T. Evans, Esq. Stepney, who we believe first had it to flower in this
kingdom. It is propagated by cuttings; must be kept in the bark-bed of
the hot-house, and should be planted in very rich mould.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCIII.

IXIA COLUMNARIS.

_Columnar-chived Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, æqualis.

STIGMATA tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6 petals, spreading, equal.

SUMMITS three, upright-spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia filamentis basi cohærentibus, floribus capitatis; corollis
purpureis.

Ixia with threads united at the base; flowers grow in heads; blossoms
purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two Valves of the empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open.

3. The Chives and Pointal, with the tube of the blossom, the border cut
off.

4. The Chives cut and spread open, with the tube of the blossom,
magnified.

5. The Pointal and Seed-bud, with one of the Summits detached and
magnified.


Here we have a plant which presents one of those obstacles, constantly
met, in all attempts to a systematic arrangement of the productions of
nature. Every feature of Ixia we find positively expressed, but in the
unison of the Threads; a circumstance, which Linnæus in his system,
always deemed of such singular moment, that a number of Genera have been
formed, from this natural order of plants, hinging on this only
character.

But, as this plant has been named, and accurately described by Mr.
Salisbury, in the Prodromus to his garden 36. n. 18; and continued, from
him, by Professor Martyn, in his Edit. of Miller’s Dict. article Ixia,
50; in the following therefore such superiour judgments to our own, we
have thought it proper, not to make any alteration; and in consequence,
have retained his Generic and Specific title. The extreme brilliance of
the flowers of Ixia Columnaris, pervading all the varieties, (of which
we have drawings of 6,) is not exceeded by any in the whole Genus; they
generally, are not longer expanded than for about four hours, and that
only under a hot sun; from about eight, till twelve o’clock; when they
close for the day; but nevertheless they have a permanence not usual in
Ixias, as the same blossoms will open diurnally for above a week. It is
a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and came first to England, by the way
of Holland, about the year 1794. It flowers in June and July, amongst
the latest of the tribe, and increases by the root in abundance. Our
figure was taken at the Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCIV.

GERANIUM LACINIATUM. _Var. flore purpureo._

_Ragged-leaved Geranium._ _Purple flowered Variety._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

One POINTAL. Five summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns; five dry berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

GERANIUM foliis radicalibus, integris laciniatisque, petiolis
filiformibus; calycibus monophillis; staminibus quinque fertilibus;
radice tuberosa; floribus purpureis.

GERANIUM with leaves growing from the root, entire and jagged,
footstalks thread-shaped; cups one-leaved; five fertile chives; root
tuberous; flowers purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement magnified.

2. The Chives spread open.

3. The Pointal and seed-bud magnified.


This very handsome variety, (for we cannot consider it as a species,) of
the Geranium laciniatum, was imported in 1800, from the Cape of Good
Hope, by G. Hibbert Esq.; in whose collection it flowered, last year, in
the month of June, when our drawing was taken; and we believe it is in
no other at present in this kingdom. Mr. Allen, under whose care that
collection is preserved in such high order and perfection, and to whose
kind communications, we are much indebted; informs us, that he has not,
as yet, been able to increase it; but, from every appearance, the plant,
he has no doubt, may, by the root, as are the other species which have
the tuberous character; and that he did not treat it differently from
the rest of the Geraniums which compose this branch of that interesting
family.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCV.

PLATYLOBIUM LANCEOLATUM.

_Lance-shaped-leaved Flat-pea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two Sets. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX campanulatus, quinquesidus; laciniis duabus supremis maximis,
obtusis. Stamina omnia coalita. Legumen pedicellatum, compressum, dorso
alatum; polyspermum.

CUP bell-shaped, five-cleft; the two upper segments very large and
obtuse. Chives all united. Pod on a footstalk, compressed, winged along
the back; many seeded.

See Plate CXCI. Vol. III. PLATYLOBIUM SCOLOPENDRUM.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Platylobium foliis glaberrimis, distichis, lineari-lanceolatis; floribus
solitariis, axillaribus; ramis junioribus sub-compressis.

Flat-Pea with very smooth leaves pointing opposite ways, linear-lance
shaped; flowers grow solitary from the lower part of the leaves close to
the branches; the younger branches are rather flatish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement of the flower.

2. The Standard, or upper petal of the blossom.

3. One of the Wings, or side petals of the blossom.

4. The two lower Petals, or keel of the blossom.

5. The Chives, natural size.

6. The same, magnified.

7. The Seed-bud, natural size.

8. The same magnified, but rather more mature.


No Class, amongst the 24, is more distinct in its natural character than
Diadelphia; yet, since the discovery of New South Wales, no one has
presented more difficulty to the botanist. From the great number of
plants of that country, appertaining to this Class, and the strong
differing characters which most of them exhibit, such indeed, as might
formerly have been thought of sufficient moment to constitute new
Genera; many must now bend a little for the ease of science; or
otherwise they will in a short time become doubled in number; a matter
of no small moment to weak although willing memories. Our having placed
the P. scolopendrum of this Volume, Pl. CXCI., and our present plant to
the Genus Platylobium, is the occasion of the above prelude; as it may
be thought by some who have not seen the seed vessel and seeds, the
principal parts upon which the Genus is founded, that nature is a little
outraged in so doing; but, without we had so joined them, we must have
given them a new title. This plant was introduced at the same time as
the P. scolopendrum, and the three other species now in Britain; not one
of them, but has baffled all our most experienced cultivators to
increase it, by any other mode than from the seed; some of which has
been procured from the P. formosum, only. They all require to be kept in
the dryest part of the green-house, as they are impatient of damp. Our
drawing was made in November 1801, at the Nursery of Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy, Hammersmith, by whom it was first raised in 1792. The general
height of the Platylobiums, is about three feet and a half, at most, in
this country, and they do not form bushy shrubs. They require a light,
sandy peat soil, with rather less root room, than is in general
necessary for plants of equal size.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCVI.

DRACÆNA BOREALIS.

_Oval leaved Dracæna._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga, erectiuscula, æqualia, unguibus
cohærentia.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, unguibus inserta, subulata, medio crassiora,
basi membranacea, longitudine vix corollæ. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, sexstriatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
staminium. Stigma trifidum, obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca ovata, sexsulcata, trilocularis.

SEMINA solitaria, ovato-oblonga, apice incurvata.

OBS. Character fere Asparagi, habitus diversus.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM. Petals six, oblong, rather upright, equal, cohering by the
claws.

CHIVES. Threads six, inserted into the claws, awl-shaped, thicker about
the middle, skinny at the base, almost the length of the blossom. Tips
oblong, incumbent.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, six-streaked. Shaft thread shaped, the
length of the chives. Summit three-cleft, obtuse.

SEED-VESSEL. Berry egg-shaped, six-furrowed, three-celled.

SEEDS solitary, oblong-egg-shaped, turned inward at the end.

OBS. The Character is very near Asparagus, the habit different.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Dracæna, herbacea, subcaulescens, foliis elipticis.

Dracæna, herbaceous, rather aspiring to a stem, leaves eliptic.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal with its chive.

2. A Chive, magnified.

3. The Pointal, magnified.

4. A ripe Berry.

5. The same, cut transversely.


About the year 1776, this plant was first received in England, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy from Montreal, Canada, N. America. It is a
native of all the northern parts of that country, as far as New England;
propagates itself by the root, and flowers in July. It will not thrive
but on a shady border, which should be made of light sandy peat.

Much we revere the name of Solander, and highly rate his merit as a
Botanist; yet we cannot forbear stating our dissent from the arrangement
of this plant, as a Dracæna, certainly nothing can be more dissimilar,
in every part; this may be easily traced by comparing our figure and
dissections, as connected with the Generic character. The whole natural
habit of the plant, points out Convallaria for its genus, to which it is
much nearer allied than Dracæna, even in the sexual characters. However,
we only state our opinions, without even thinking of change, as the
plant is known as Dracæna, having been figured and described in the
First Vol. of the Kew Catalogue, page 454, under the present title.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCVII.

MIMOSA LONGIFOLIA.

_Long-leaved Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various dispositions. Upon one Plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

Hermaphrod. CALYX 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 5 seu plura. Pist. 1.
Legumen.

Mascul. CALYX 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida. Stam. 5, 10, plura.

Hermaph. CUP five-toothed. Bloss. 5-cleft. Chives 5 or more. Pointal
one. A pod.

Male. CUP 5-toothed. Bloss. 5-cleft. Chives 5, 10, or more.

See MIMOSA STRICTA. Pl. LIII. VOL. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Mimosa foliis integris longissimis, utrinque glabris, obtusis; capituli
geminati, racemosi, longissimi, oppositi, lutei, subcernui.

Mimosa with entire, very long leaves, smooth on both sides and blunt;
flower heads grow by pairs in very long bunches opposite to each other,
yellow and rather nodding.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower, magnified, shewn sideways.

2. The Empalement, magnified.

3. The Blossom, magnified.

4. A Chive, magnified.

5. The Pointal, magnified.


About the year 1792 J. Ord, Esq. of Pursers Cross, Fulham, received the
seeds of this Mimosa from New South Wales; the plants were raised, the
ensuing year, by Mr. White, who has managed, much to his credit, the
select collection of that Gentleman near 20 years, and who obligingly
sent us a fine specimen in March 1801, taken from a plant near 18 feet
in height. Of the Mimosas now in Britain, we think, this species is
likely to exceed them all in height; making a very handsome plant; and
most beautiful at the season when covered with its long pendulous
bunches of flowers. It is increased by cuttings, but with difficulty;
and, as yet, seeds have not been perfected in this country. A light
sandy earth is what it thrives in most, but it will grow in almost any
soil.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCVIII.

LASIOPETALUM FERRUGINEUM.

_Rusty Woolly-blossom._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium triphyllum, foliolis subulatis, tomentosis,
persistentibus, ferruginosis.

COROLLA monopetala, rotata, lanuginosa, quinquefida; laciniis ovatis,
apicibus acutis, incurvatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, brevia, erecta, germinis basi affixa.
Antheræ erectæ, dorso bilobæ, apice poris duobus.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, superum. Stylus minutus, filiformis, erectus.
Stigma obsoletum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, supera, trisulcata, trilocularis,
trivalvis, dissepimentis e medio valvularum.

SEMINA numerosa, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup three-leaved, leaflets awl-shaped, downy, permanent, and
of a rusty iron colour.

BLOSSOM, one petal, wheel-shaped, woolly, and five-cleft; segments
egg-shaped, sharp pointed and incurved at the point.

CHIVES. Threads five, short, upright, fixed to the base of the seed-bud.
Tips upright, two-lobed at the back, and two pores at the point.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, above. Shaft small, thread-shaped,
upright. Summit obsolete.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, above, three-furrowed, three cells, three
valves, partitions from the middle of the valves.

SEEDS numerous, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lasiopetalum foliis sublinearibus, obtusis, inequaliter sinuatis, supra
glabris subtus lanuginosis; floribus racemosis, axillaribus.

Woolly blossom with nearly linear leaves, blunt, unequally indented,
smooth above, woolly beneath; flowers grow in long bunches from the
insertion of the leaves into the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Blossom.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. A Chive, magnified.

5. The Pointal.

6. The same magnified.


The singularity of this plant recommends it to our notice, rather than
its beauty. It is a native of New South Wales, near Port Jackson, and is
found in marshy grounds; where its branches are seen to extend many
yards, embracing all the under shrubs they meet; they seldom exceed the
size of small twine, but are exceeding tough. The whole plant, when old,
has a dirty or rusty brown appearance, the leaves becoming very small
and narrow; although from culture in this country, we have seen the
leaves, on some plants, near an inch in breadth, and three in length.
For the Generic and Specific titles of this plant we are indebted to Dr.
Smith, P. L. S. &c. and we do not think more appropriate ones could have
been invented. The giving specific names and characters to plants, where
only one has been discovered of the Genus, although a little from
Linnæan principles, we must confess accords with our ideas; for,
although, to compare is necessary to distinctive difference; yet, if the
most ostensible, and novel appearance of the parts, are taken from the
first discovered plant, for the specific character; there is no more
danger of confusion, from any addition to the Genus, than if no such
observations had been made; for, what must in future be taken as
specific distinction must arise from an opposition to the first plant on
which the Genus was founded: wherefore we have adopted this manner, from
the commencement of the work. This plant was first raised at the
Hammersmith Nursery, from seeds received from New South Wales in 1791.
It is propagated by cuttings taken from the young shoots, in April;
should be planted in very sandy peat earth, and kept very dry in winter.
It is in flower nearly the whole year.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCIX.

GERANIUM MELANANTHUM.

_Black-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis lobatis integrisque, hispidis, obtusis; calycibus
monophyllis, laciniis linearibus; floribus nigricantibus, dioicis;
radice tuberosa.

Geranium with lobed, and entire leaves, hairy and obtuse; cups one
leaved, segments linear; flowers blackish, with the chives and pointals
distinct; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size, the tube cut open.

2. The Chives of a male blossom, natural size.

3. The same, cut open and magnified.

4. The abortive Pointal of a male blossom, natural size.

5. The same, magnified.

6. The abortive Chives of a female blossom, natural size.

7. The same, magnified.

8. The Pointal of a female blossom, magnified.


This species of Geranium has been given by Professor Jacquin in his
Icon: rar. 514, and his Collectanea 4. 188; from him, we find it
collated by Professor Martyn into his Edit. of Miller’s Dict. under the
article Pelargonium, 59. But, as no notice has been taken by Jacquin of
so remarkable a circumstance as this species being Dioecious, or with
male and female flowers on different plants; we may be led to suppose,
that it has not flowered in Germany; or that the specimens he had seen,
were from male plants, as he numbers the fertile chives as five, which
could not have been discovered from a female specimen. Of five plants we
had the good fortune to examine, which were all in flower at the same
time, the roots of which had been imported from the Cape of Good Hope in
the year 1793; three were male, with five fertile tips, the pointals
obsolete; and two female, without the least trace of a tip, in either
blossom, or bud. As the tips frequently fall upon the expansion of the
flower, in many species, the bud is the only sure situs whence to
determine this character. It is increased from seed, procured from
female plants only, which are much more unfrequent than the male;
likewise from the roots, which, (like to those of most of the species
forming this link of the Genus,) are tuberous; forming small bulbs of
unequal sizes, connected to the main root by slight radicles, and at a
little distance from it: which, indeed, is the reason we have not
adopted the term rapaceous, or turnip rooted, although it is a character
which has been applied to them by very able Botanists, yet we think
unadvisedly, or from their not having had the opportunity of examining
them closely; as, we presume, this term cannot with propriety be given
to any root which is composed of more than one body, as are the Turnip,
Carrot, Parsnip, Radish, &c. where it applies. It must be planted in
light peat earth, and kept in the dryest part of the green-house, where
it will flower about the month of July. Our figure was taken at Clapham
in June, this year, from a male plant in the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCX.

ANTHOLYZA ÆTHIOPICA.

_Broad-leaved Antholyza._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA tubulosa, irregularis, recurvata. Capsula infera.

BLOSSOM tubular, irregular, and bent backward. Capsule beneath.

See ANTHOLYZA RINGENS, Pl. XXXII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Antholyza foliis floribusque distichis; lacinia summa corolla recla,
spathulata, basi ferrata; spathis rigidis, adpressis.

Antholyza with the leaves as well as the flowers pointing opposite ways;
the upper segment of the blossom straight, spithula-shaped, and sawed at
the base; sheaths harsh and pressed to the blossoms.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The whole plant, upon a diminished scale.

2. The Empalement.

3. A Blossom cut open, with the chives remaining.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits.


This very handsome Antholyza, which is seen so seldom to flower, in this
kingdom, has been long an inhabitant of our gardens. So long ago as
1759, it is said to have been cultivated by Miller; and from the firm
and hardy character of the root, we should question its having been
since that period, ever, like many others of this natural order, left to
us. The unfrequency of its flowering has, perhaps, occasioned the
inattention, which is in general shewn to its cultivation, though most
collectors possess the bulbs, few have seen their flowers. Our figure
was taken in the month of July, this year, from a plant in the
collection of T. Evans, Esq. Stepney. It is increased from the roots,
which should be removed from the pots in July, and replanted the end of
October. We have not been able to procure any certain data on which to
give directions to insure its flowering; but the plant in question was
planted in a very large pot, the earth was a compound of light peat one
part, stiff loam one part, and old rotten dung one part. It has been
thought by some, that the Antholyza we have figured in the Botanist’s
Repository, Plate XXXI. was the A. Æthiopica of Linnæus, &c; but, we
have given it as a broad-leaved variety of the A. ringens of that
author, as we have a drawing of the Narrow leaved Var: taken from a
living plant, to which, as well as to our present figure, it much
affines; and, we are led to think, natural order would not be much
violated, if we had treated them all as varieties of one species.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXI.

IXIA COLUMNARIS. _Var. versicolor._

_Columnar-leaved Ixia._ _Changeable-coloured var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, equalis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, spreading, equal. Summits three, upright-spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia filamentis basi cohærentibus; floribus sub-capitatis; corollis
versicoloribus.

Ixia with threads united at the base; flowers grow nearly in heads;
blossoms changeable-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open.

3. The Seed-bud, with the Chives, as they stand upon the mouth of the
blossom; the petals being cut off, and the summits as they appear
through the tips, the whole magnified.

4. The Threads cut open, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, magnified.


This most beautiful variety, of the Columnar-chived Ixia, was introduced
to us, from Holland, in the year 1799. It flowers about the beginning of
June, and continues in blossom about three weeks. The beautiful manner
in which the colours of the flowers, of this variety, are blended, and
which appear to change, as regarded from different points of view, is
beyond the painter’s skill; the best that can be done is but a faint
imitation. The roots of this plant are rather more delicate than the
other varieties of this species.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXII.

POGONIA DEBILIS.

_Slender-stemed Pogonia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum persistens; foliolis lanceolatis,
erectis, acutis, apicibus reflexis.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis, tubus cylindricus, longitudine
calycis, ore villis clauso; limbus semiquinquesidus, laciniis concavis,
acutis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, tubo supra medium inserta. Antheræ erectæ,
sagittatæ, intra faucem.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, apice parum curvatus,
longitudine tubi, persistens. Stigma concavum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca ovata, compressa, calyci accreta.

SEMEN. Nux quadrilocularis, putamine durissimo; nuclei oblongi.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved, permanent; leaflets lance-shaped, upright,
pointed, and reflexed at the ends.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped, tube cylindrical, the length of the
cup, the mouth closed with soft hairs; border half five-cleft; segments
concave and pointed.

CHIVES. Threads five, inserted into the tube above the middle. Tips
upright, arrow-shaped, within the mouth.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, a little curved at
the end, the length of the tube, remaining. Summit concave.

SEED-VESSEL. An egg-shaped, flattened berry, growing to the cup.

SEED. A four-celled nut, shell very hard; kernels oblong.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pogonia foliis lanceolatis, apicibus sæpe serrulatis, distichis;
floribus solitariis, axillaribus, cæruleis; cortice scabrosa.

Pogonia with lance-shaped leaves, often slightly sawed at the ends, and
pointing opposite ways; flowers solitary, growing from the insertion of
the leaves into the stem, and blue; bark rough.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives as they stand in the blossom.

3. A Chive, magnified.

4. The Pointal.

5. Summit, with part of the Shaft, magnified.

6. The Cup, with the ripe berry, the shaft remaining, and the cup a
little enlarged.

7. A Berry cut transversly, to shew the situation of the kernels in the
cells.


The Pogonia here figured, is the only one of the genus we at present
possess; it is a native of Port Jackson, New South Wales, and was first
transmitted to England, by Col. Paterson, in the year 1793. It is a
climbing plant, the branches acquiring a considerable length, the bark
being covered with small tubercles, like glands, and the younger
branches covered, their whole length, with blossoms. Although this is
not to be reckoned amongst the handsomest of the productions of that
country, yet, from the lively colour of the flowers, the profusion of
them which the plant produces, and their continued succession, from
April, till September, it must be considered as a valuable addition to
the small number of scandent plants, as yet in our green-houses; more
particularly at the present juncture, when, from fashion, a trellis has
become a necessary appendage to them. It is propagated from the seeds,
which ripen in this country; as well as from cuttings, which should be
made in May, and kept in the heat of a cucumber-frame, or hot-house,
till they are rooted. It is grown best in sandy peat. Our figure was
taken at the Hammersmith Nursery, where it was first raised in this
kingdom. The name, Pogonia, is derived from the appearance of the mouth
of the flower which is bearded; Πωγωνιον, _Pogonion_, signifying a
little beard.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXIII.

IXIA COLUMNARIS. _Var. latifolia._

_Columnar-chived Ixia._ _Broad-leaved var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, patens, equalis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, spreading, equal. Summits three, upright-spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia filamentis basi cohærentibus; floribus sub-capitatis; corollis
pallide cæruleis; foliis latioribus, falcatis.

Ixia with threads cohering at the base; flowers grow nearly in heads;
blossoms pale-blue; leaves broader, scymitar-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open, with the chives remaining attached.

3. The Tube of a blossom, with the chives, the petals cut off.

4. The same, cut open and magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits; the summits detached and magnified.


The variety here given, was introduced to England, with the
changeable-flowered variety, in 1799, from Holland. It is the strongest
marked variety of the six we possess; it flowers in May. The petals of
this variety are remarkably thick at the insertion into the tube, and
have a soft, beautiful brown on the outside, when the flower is closed,
which still is never so fully so, but a small margin of the blue
appears; which gives them a most beautiful appearance in that state. No
particular regime is necessary to this plant, more than what is
necessary to all the common species.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXIV.

WESTERINGIA ROSMARINACEA.

_Rosemary-like Westeringia._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, sub-cylindricum, erectum, persistens,
quinquedentatum, æquale; bracteis binis suffultum.

COROLLA monopetala; petalum tubulatum calyce paulo longius; limbus
patens, quinquepartitus, sub æqualis; laciniis duabus superioribus
emarginatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, filiformia, fauci tubi inserta, quorum duo
superiora longiora, fertilia; duo breviora sterilia. Antheræ loculis
oblongis, duæ superiores dependentes; duæ inferiores erectæ, sagittatæ,
squamiformes.

PISTILLUM. Germen tetragonum. Stylus filiformis, parum curvatus,
longitudine tubi. Stigma bifidum, reflexum.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx in fundo semina continens.

SEMINA quatuor, ovalia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, nearly cylindrical, upright, remaining,
five-toothed, equal; supported by two leaflets.

BLOSSOM one petal; petal tubular, rather longer than the cup; border
spreading, five-divided, nearly equal; the two upper segments notched at
the end.

CHIVES. Four threads, thread-shaped, inserted into the mouth of the
tube, of which the two upper ones are longer, and fertile; two shorter,
and sterile. Tips with oblong cells, the two upper ones hang down; the
two lower are upright, arrow-shaped, and like thin scales.

POINTAL. Seed-bud four-sided. Shaft thread-shaped, a little curved, the
length of the tube. Summit two-cleft, reflexed.

SEED-VESSEL none. Cup containing the seeds at the bottom.

SEEDS four, oval.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Westeringia foliis verticillatis, sub-linearibus, acutis, subtus
sericeis; floribus axillaribus, spicatis.

Westeringia with leaves growing in whorls, nearly linear, pointed and
silky underneath; flowers grow from the base of the leaves close to the
stem, in spikes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, with the two props attached to the base.

2. A Flower spread open, with the chives in their place, magnified.

3. The Pointal, natural size.

4. The same magnified.


The present plant was introduced to our gardens, in the year 1791, from
New South Wales, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. It was first
named Cunila verticillata, and, from what we can judge, it might,
without much forcing of the characters of the genus, have been so
continued; but our opinions shall always give way, when the decision is
past from such superior talents as those of Dr. Smith; by whom it has
been thought to possess a sufficiency of distinctive character, on which
to form a new genus, under the title it here bears. It is a bushy shrub,
grows to the height of three feet, the branches standing out almost
horizontally, in whorls, and the whole plant bearing a great resemblance
to the Rosemary. It is propagated by cuttings made in March from the end
of the small branches; approves most of light sandy peat, and is in
flower from March till November. The whole plant is scentless.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXV.

EMBOTHRIUM SALIGNUM.

_Willow-like Embothrium._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus. Cor. tetrapetala. Stamina limbo petalorum inserta.
Folliculus polyspermus. Sem. alata.

EMPALEMENT none. Bloss. four-petalled. Chives inserted into the limb of
the petals. One-celled-pod, many seeded. Seeds winged.

See EMBOTHRIUM SERICEUM, Pl. C. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Embothrium foliis lanceolatis, uninervis, utrinque glaberrimis;
umbellulis axillaribus; corollis subalbidis.

Embothrium with lance-shaped leaves, one nerved, very smooth on both
sides; the small umbels of flowers grow from the insertion of the leaves
into the stem; blossoms whitish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower complete, with the summit relieved from the petals,
magnified.

2. The same with the summit yet restrained by the petals.

3. One petal with the tip, magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.


This Genus, if we may judge from what we already possess, amounting to 6
species, promises to furnish an ample feast for Botanists; for we have
no doubt, but the species are as numerous as of any one from New
Holland. The Willow-like Embothrium makes a very handsome bushy
green-house plant; the leaves are not subject to damp, and the stem
acquires the height of 5 or 6 feet. It flowers about May, and from the
manner in which the leaves rather fall downwards, from their insertion,
leaving the bunches of flowers fully exposed, at their base, it has a
very picturesque appearance, as the whole plant is sometimes covered
with blossoms. It thrives best in sandy peat earth, and is increased by
cuttings, made about March, or April, and placed in the heat of the
Hot-house, or a cucumber frame. Our figure was taken at the Hammersmith
Nursery; where, it was first raised from seeds, in the year 1791.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXVI.

EPIDENDRUM SINENSE.

_Chinese Epidendrum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

NECTARIUM turbinatum, obliquum, reflexum.

HONEY-CUP top-shaped, oblique and reflexed.

See Plate XIII. Vol. I. EPIDENDRUM COCHLEATUM.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Epidendrum foliis ensiformibus, nervosis, radicalibus; nectario
revoluto, punctato; petalis striatis.

Epidendrum with sword-shaped leaves, nerved, and growing from the root;
honey-cup rolled back, and dotted; petals striped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower, one of the petals and the honey-cup cut off; to shew the
situation, and place of the parts of fructification.

2. The Honey-cup.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, Summit, and Chives; the small hood which covers
the Chives, lifted up.


This long genus of plants, so little known hitherto, but in our books,
bids fair to become one of the greatest ornaments of our hot-houses; 20
species we already enumerate, in the different collections in the
vicinity of London; one of which, the present plant, has not flowered in
this kingdom, till this year, although introduced, so long ago as 1793,
by the late J. Slater, Esq. of Layton-stone; at the same time with the
two varieties of the Double Camellia, from China. Our figure was taken
in September 1801, from a plant which had been placed in the spring of
the same year, in the Conservatory built on purpose for the protection
of Chinese plants, and where they flourish to a degree, not seen before
in this country, in the garden of G. Hibbert Esq. Clapham common. It is
propagated by offsets, from the root; is rather a hardy hot-house plant;
and thrives most in a mixture of sandy loam, and peat; about one fourth
of the loam, and three fourths peat, or leaf-mould.

Upon the first observation of this plant, we were inclined to think it
the species designed by Thunberg in his Icon. Plant. Japon. 28, under
the Genus Limodorum; and afterwards, altered by him, in the Linnæan
Trans. Vol. ii. p. 327, to Epidendrum striatum. But upon close
examination of it, as answering his descriptions, &c. we cannot but
think it, if not a different species, at least a very strong variety of
his plant; wherefore, we have retained the name it is in common known
by, in the various collections in which we have seen it. If we were to
decide on the subject, it should be to place both that and this plant
again to Limodorum; to which, they hold greater affinity than to
Epidendrum; but indeed, we have an opinion, that one title might readily
serve for the plants constituting both genera.

[Illustration]




_Vol. IV._
_of the_
Botanist’s Repository
_Comprising,_
_Colour’d Engravings_
of
_New and Rare Plants_
ONLY

With Botanical Descriptions &c.
_in_
_Latin and English,_
_after the_
Linnæan System.

_by_
_H. Andrews_

_Botanical Painter Engraver &c._

[Illustration]




PLATE CCVII.

PASSIFLORA MALIFORMIS.

_Apple-fruited Passion-Flower._


CLASS XX. ORDER IV.

_GYNANDRIA PENTANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Five Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum, planum, coloratum, petalis conforme.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, semi-lanceolata, plana, obtusa, magnitudine et
figura calycis.

_Nectarium_ corona triplex; exterior longior, intra petala stylum
cingens, superne magis coarctata.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, ad basin germinis columnæ annexa,
patentia. Antheræ incumbentes, oblongæ, obtusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, apici columnæ cylindraceæ, rectæ
insidens. Styli tres, superne crassiores, patuli. Stigmata capitata.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca carnosa, subovata, unilocularis, pedicellata.

SEMINA plurima, ovata, arillata.

_Receptaculum_ feminum triplex, cortici pericarpii longitudinaliter
adnatum.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-parted, flat, coloured, like the petals.

BLOSSOM. Petals five, half lance-shaped, flat, blunt, of the size and
shape of the cup.

_Honey-cup_, a triple crown; the outer longer, encircling the shaft
within the petals, more contracted above.

CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, fixed to the base of the column of the
seed-bud, spreading. Tips fixed by their backs, oblong, obtuse.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, falling into the end of a cylindrical,
upright column. Three shafts, thicker above, spreading. Summits headed.

SEED-VESSEL. A fleshy berry, nearly egg-shaped, one-celled, pedicelled.

SEEDS many, egg-shaped, covered by a seed-coat.

_Receptacle_ of the seeds triple, fixed longitudinally to the rind of
the berry.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Passiflora foliis indivisis, cordato-oblongis, integerrimis; petiolis
biglandulosis; involucro triphyllo, flore majore; fructu maliformi.

Passion-Flower with undivided leaves, heart-shape-oblong, quite entire;
foot-stalks with two glands, fence three-leaved, larger than the flower;
fruit like an apple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A ripe fruit.

2. A Flower cut perpendicularly through the middle, to shew its interior
structure, with the parts of fructification complete.


This species of Passion-Flower is said to be a sojourner with us since
the year 1731, and to have been then cultivated by Miller. It is
likewise said to be a native of Dominica, but it is found in all the
West India islands. It rarely flowers in this climate; and we should not
now have been able to gratify our friends with this figure, but for the
particular ingenuity, in the treatment of hot house plants, by Mr.
Anderson, superintendant of the rich collection of plants in the gardens
of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, who by a long experience in
cultivation, added to a particular love for the profession, has placed
his knowledge in the treatment of exotics, in particular, much beyond
most cultivators of the present day. Our figure was taken from a plant
which continued in flower from July till November; it was planted in a
border of rich earth, close to the tan-pit, and trailed along the front
rafter of the house; the only method, we presume, by which it can be
induced to flower, as we have never seen it elsewhere. It is propagated
with ease by cuttings.

Much contention has arisen among Botanists, since the days of Linnæus,
where to place this tribe of plants. Swartz placed it to Monadelphia,
who is lately followed by Willdenow. Schreber, Thunberg, &c. have thrown
it to Pentandria. But our antiquated notions of the capability of that
great man, in classifying to his own system, those plants which came
under his actual review, has occasioned our retaining it, under its old
class, just as he left it.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXVIII.

EMBOTHRIUM BUXIFOLIUM.

_Box-leaved Embothrium._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA tetrapetala. Stamina limbo inserta. Folliculus polyspermus.
Semina alata.

BLOSSOM four-petals. Chives inserted into the limbs. One-celled pod,
many seeded. Seeds winged.

See EMBOTHRIUM SERICEUM, Pl. C. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Embothrium foliis ellipticis, integerrimis, margine revolutis,
pubescentibus; umbellis terminalibus; folliculo villoso.

Embothrium with elliptical, entire leaves, rolled back at the edge, and
downy; umbels terminal; seed-pod hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower, magnified, the petals yet attached to each other.

2. The same, the petals disengaged.

3. The Pointal, magnified.

4. A Seed-vessel, natural size.

5. A ripe Seed, natural size.


This we believe is amongst the most rare of the plants, hitherto
introduced, from New Holland. It has been figured in the third Number of
New Holland Botany, published by Dr. Smith in 1793: it is there said not
to have been, at that time, in England; but, as it had not then
flowered, the plant was not known, although in the collection of Messrs.
Lee and Kennedy, three years precedent to that publication; and where,
it first flowered in 1795. Our figure was taken in September 1789 from a
plant (we fear the only one at present in this kingdom) in the
Hibbertian collection. It has not yet been propagated with us, and the
seeds do not mature. The plant is nearly four feet high, and forms a
handsome, bushy shrub, continuing in flower nearly the whole summer.
Over the whole plant there is a brown, or rusty-like appearance, which
takes much from its beauty. It flourishes in peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXIX.

GLADIOLUS CUSPIDATUS. _Var. petalis crispis._

_Spear-spotted Gladiolus._ _Var. with crisped petals._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sex-partita, ringens.

STAMINA adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis lineari-ensiformibus, glabris; corolla ringente;
laciniis longissimis, acuminatis, crispatis, subæqualibus, tribus
inferioribus in medio macula oblonga notalis; corollis albicantibus.

Gladiolus with linear-sword-shaped smooth leaves; blossom gaping,
segments very long, tapered to the point, crisped and nearly equal, the
three lower ones in the middle have an oblong spot; blossoms whitish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the Empalement.

2. The Blossom cut open, with the chives.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, one division of the summit magnified.


Although this species of Gladiolus is as old in our gardens as, almost
any, we have; yet, it is not much known, from the unfrequency of its
flowering, of which there is no certainty. The best method to assist it
with a vigorous growth, is to place it in a considerable degree of
warmth, such as the heat of the hot-house, the pot being kept in a pan,
with water. With this assistance, it may be made to flower, sometimes,
about the end of May. It is a very hardy bulb, in what regards the root,
and its preservation. Our figure was made in May, 1800, from a plant
which had been treated in the above manner, at the Hammersmith nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXX.

MASSONIA SCABRA.

_Rough-leaved Massonia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA infera, limbo 6-partito. Filamenta collo tubi imposita. Capsula
3-alata, 3 locularis, polysperma.

BLOSSOM beneath, border 6-divided. Threads placed on the neck of the
tube. Capsule 3-winged, 3 celled, many-seeded.

See MASSONIA VIOLACEA, Pl. 46. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Massonia foliis cordato-orbiculatis, supra scabrosis; laciniis corollæ
reflexis.

Massonia with leaves between heart-shaped and round, rough on the upper
side; the segments of the blossom reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A skinny sheath, one being attached to each flower, at the lower part
of the foot-stalk.

2. A Flower complete.

3. The Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the chives into the
mouth, just within the honey-cups.

4. The Seed bud, shaft and summit.


The rough-leaved Massonia is, as well as all the hitherto discovered
species of the genus, a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and was
introduced to Britain, in the year 1796, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy; at
whose nursery, our figure was taken in the year 1800; where, it had then
flowered for the first time, in this kingdom. It is a hardy greenhouse
bulb; propagates from the root, and perfects its seeds; flowers in
February and March, and loses its leaves in June. It stands quite
distinct from M. latifolia, both in the character of the leaves and
blossoms; though, at first sight, it has much the appearance of that
species. A loamy soil lightened by a small mixture of sandy peat is that
it most approves. The roots should not be taken from the pots after the
decay of the leaves, but kept rather dry till the leaves begin to
re-appear.

Much will it contribute to the illustration of science, to find our
present figure, when copied into a certain magazine at some future
period, (and of which we have no doubt,) specifically denominated,
smooth-leaved; as unfortunately, the other species figured by us, Pl.
46. Vol. I. with obovate, blunt-ended, or spathula-shaped leaves, has
been, by a certain hocus-pocus conjuror, and _our very good friend_,
converted into sword shaped! _risum teneatis_.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXI.

WURMBEA CAPENSIS. _Var._ β.

_Cape Wurmbea._ 2. _Var._:


CLASS VI. ORDER III.

_HEXANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Six Chives. Three Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA monopetala, sexfida, infera; laciniis lanceolatis, acutis,
erectis.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, filiformia, erecta, fauci corollæ insertæ.
Antheræ erectæ, didymæ.

PISTILLA. Germen triquetrum, apice tripartitum, glabrum, superum. Styli
tres, triquetri, subulati, incurvi, longitudine staminum. Stigmata
obsoleta.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, triquetra, trisulca, trilocularis, a medio
tripartita.

SEMINA plurima, rotunda.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM one petal, six-cleft, beneath; segments lance-shaped, pointed
and upright.

CHIVES. Threads six, thread-shaped, upright, inserted into the mouth of
the blossom. Tips upright, double.

POINTALS. Seed-bud three-sided, three-divided at the top, smooth and
above. Shafts three, three-sided, awl-shaped, turned inwards, the length
of the Chives. Summits obsolete.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, three-sided, three-furrowed, three-celled,
three-divided from the middle.

SEEDS many, round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Wurmbea foliis cucullatis, lanceolatis; spica multiflora; floribus
sessilibus, atro-purpureis.

Wurmbea with hooded, lance-shaped leaves; spike many-flowered; flowers
sitting close to the stem and dark-purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut and spread open, with the Chives in their place.

2. The Pointals, natural size.

3. The same, magnified.


This genus was first formed by Thunberg as distinct from Melanthium, in
his _Dissertatio Nova Genera Plantarum_, under the title Wurmbea, from
the construction of the blossom, which in this, is formed of one petal,
but in that, is composed of six; a distinction which has always been
considered as momentous, in determining the limits of the different
genera of this class; since which, however, it has been abandoned by
him, and thrown to Melanthium; although Schreber, in his Genera
Plantarum, G. 617. p. 239. Vol. I. made no scruple in adopting it.
Willdenow has, in his Species Plantarum, G. 703. p. 265. T. 11. P. 1. we
think with propriety, renewed its claims to particular distinction,
under the first title; but with this difference, that out of the four
varieties given by Thunberg, all under the specific name of capensis, he
has made three species; reserving his opinion on the fourth, our present
plant, and the second Var. of Thunberg, for want, as he observes, of
proper documents. Now, as our ideas run not exactly with Willdenow, in
this alteration; but thinking with Thunberg, who must have seen the
plants alive, and thence, of course, the best judge; we have the rather
followed him; as we possess drawings of two more of the varieties quoted
by him, taken from living specimens, and whose trifling difference of
character does not warrant them to be treated as specifically different,
but as mere varieties of each other.

The roots of this species, with the others, of which we have drawings,
were received by G. Hibbert, Esq. in the year 1800, from the Cape of
Good Hope. The bulbs are solid like those of Ixia, &c. but of a most
singular form, having an appendage at the base like the pat of a mole.
None of the varieties we have seen produce more than three leaves, which
sheath the flower-stem one above the other, and are rather longer than
it. It flourishes in sandy peat earth, and flowers in May or June; but
has, certainly, more to recommend it to our notice from its singularity,
as forming a separate genus; than from its beauty. Our figure was taken
from the Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXII.

GERANIUM RADIATUM.

_Rayed-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis sub-obovatis, crassiusculis, integerrimis, radiatis,
humi adpressis; calycibus monophyllis, laciniis erectis; floribus
pentandris, maximis, luteis; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with leaves nearly obovate, thickish, quite entire, placed in a
ray about the stem, and lying on the ground; cups of one leaf, the
segments erect; flowers with five fertile chives, very large and yellow;
root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup laid open, to shew its hollow structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives spread open, to shew the number and situation of the
fertile ones.

4. The Pointal, magnified.


The only plants of this species of Geranium are to be found in the
Clapham collection; they were among the last, received by Mr. Hibbert
from the Cape, in 1801. To affix any particular period as the exact
season of its flowering, would be premature; as, the plant from which
our figure was taken, in the month of August, last year, had been kept
constantly in the green-house; and, we must presume, as the root arrived
nearly dry, the regular season of its flowering must have been
materially altered. It appears to flourish in a light sandy soil. The
propagation must be from the seeds, or from the root.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXIII.

CLUSIA FLAVA.

_Yellow-flowered Balsam-Tree._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various dispositions. Upon one plant.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium imbricatum; foliolis concavis, persistentibus,
exterioribus gradatim minoribus.

COROLLA. Petala 4, 5, 6, subrotunda concava, crassa, cochleata.

STAMINA. Filamenta plura, simplicia, corolla breviora. Antheræ
simplices, apicis lateri adnatæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovato-oblongum. Stylus nullus. Stigma stellatum,
planum, obtusum, persistens.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, sulcis exerata, locularis, valvis tum
radiatim dehiscentibus.

SEMINA numerosa, ovata, pulpa obtecta, affixa receptaculo columnari,
anguloso.

_Obs._ Numerus in parte fructus differt a quatuor ad duodecim
proportione observata in stigmate, valvulis, loculis, &c. Flores alii a
parte masculina, alii a feminina steriles sunt.

EMPALEMENT. Cup tiled; leaflets concave, remaining, the outer ones
gradually smaller.

BLOSSOM. Petals 4, 5, 6, roundish, concave, thick and shell-like.

CHIVES. Threads many, simple, shorter than the blossom. Tips simple,
growing to the side of the point.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong-egg-shaped. Shaft none. Summit starred, flat,
obtuse, remaining.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, strongly furrowed, celled, the valves
bursting into a starred form.

SEEDS numerous, egg-shaped, covered with pulp, fixed to an angular,
columnar receptacle.

_Obs._ The number in the parts of the fruit differs from four to twelve,
according to the proportion observed in the summit, valves, cells, &c.
Some of the flowers are sterile with respect to the male organs, and
others with respect to the female ones.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Clusia foliis aveniis; corollis tetrapetalis, luteis.

Balsam Tree with veinless leaves; blossoms with four petals, and yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Flower complete.

2. A petal shewn from the inside.

3. A petal shewn sideways.

4. The Pointal and Chives, one Chive detached, magnified.

5. The Pointal cleared of the Chives, the Seed-bud and Summit detached
and magnified.


The Balsam Tree is a native of all the West India Islands, and has been
described by Plumier, Sloan, Jacquin, Browne, &c.; but no good figure of
the plant, according with our ideas, has hitherto been given of it. The
C. rosea, C. alba, and C. flava of Jacquin, the three various species,
are said to grow to different heights, in the different Islands; which
we are led to think, are but varieties of the same plant. Linnæus has
taken them up as species, upon his authority; although Jacquin himself
allows, that the one he denominates _flava_, varies in its blossoms to
red and white. This plant does not grow to above the height of eight or
nine feet, in this country, and seldom flowers. Our figure was taken
last year in September 1801, from a plant in the Stepney Collection.
Miller says it was cultivated by him in 1759, and had been introduced by
Mr. Parker, of Croydon, in Surrey, from Barbadoes. It is readily
propagated from cuttings, and thrives in rich, dungy earth. A slight
mistake occurs, in the quotation from Browne, in Martyn’s Edition of the
Dictionary; where, the petals are described as screw-shaped; Browne has
it, “_cochleata_,” or shell-shaped, a most expressive term for the shape
of these petals.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXIV.

GERANIUM REFLEXUM.

_Reflexed-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

One POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis longe petiolatis, trifoliatis; foliolis lobato incisis,
recurvis; floribus umbellatis, pentandris; staminibus duobus
superioribus stigmatibusque reflexis; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with leaves that have long foot-stalks, and three leaflets;
leaflets gash-lobed, and rolled back; flowers grow in umbels, have five
fertile chives, with the two upper chives and the summits reflexed; root
tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, magnified.


This pretty Geranium, from the Cape of Good Hope, is another of those
which were introduced by G. Hibbert, Esq. in the year 1800, through the
medium of Mr. Niven. The root being tuberous, we judge that from a
division of the smaller lobes it is to be increased. From the reflexed
character, which pervades the whole plant, petals, leaves, parts of
fructification, &c. we have adopted our specific title. The cultivation
is the same, as for the other tuberous species of this genus. Our figure
was made at Clapham in the month of July 1801.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXV.

GNIDIA OPPOSITIFOLIA.

_Opposite-leaved Gnidia._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX infundibuliformis, quadrifidus. Petala quatuor, calyci inserta.
Semen unicum, subbaccatum.

EMPALEMENT funnel-shaped, four-cleft. Petals four inserted into the
empalement. One seed berry-like.

See GNIDIA PINIFOLIA, Pl. LII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gnidia foliis ovatis, oppositis, concavis, tomentosis; floribus
terminalibus, tomentosis.

Gnidia with egg-shaped, opposite, concave, downy leaves; flowers
terminate the branches, and are downy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete.

2. The Blossom spread open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The same, magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit.


The Opposite-leaved Gnidia is from the Cape of Good Hope, and must be
treated as a tender greenhouse or dry stove plant; as, but a little
excess of wet, in the winter, is sure to destroy it; even in summer,
much rain, if it is exposed to it for a few days, will overwhelm it. The
Kew Catalogue mentions this species to have been introduced in the year
1788, by Mr. F. Masson. The plant grows to the height of three feet,
with a very slender stem, and, often, loses most of its leaves to a
considerable height from the earth, which gives it rather a disagreeable
appearance towards the lower part. A mixture of two-thirds loam, and one
of sandy peat, is a soil it most approves. It is increased by cuttings,
made in the month of April, from the tender shoots. Our figure was taken
in July, from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXVI.

MAGNOLIA PUMILA.

_Dwarf Magnolia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII.

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium triphyllum; foliolis ovatis, concavis,
petaliformibus, deciduis.

COROLLA. Petala novem, oblonga, concava, obtusa, basi angustiora.

STAMINA. Filamenta numerosa, brevia, acuminata, compressa, receptaculo
communi pistillorum infra germina inserta. Antheræ lineares, margini
filamentorum utrinque adnatæ.

PISTILLA. Germina numerosa, ovato-oblonga, bilocularia, receptaculum
clavatum tegentia. Styli recurvi, contorti, brevissimi. Stigmata
longitudinalia styli, villosa.

PERICARPIUM. Strobilus ovatus, tectus capsulis compressis, subrotundis,
vix imbricatis, confertis, acutis, unilocularibus, bivalvibus,
sessilibus, extrorsum dehiscentibus, persistentibus.

SEMINA bina seu solitaria, subrotunda, baccata, filo pendentia ex sinu
singulæ squamæ strobili.

EMPALEMENT. Cup three-leaved; leaflets egg-shaped, concave, the form of
the petals, falling off.

BLOSSOM. Nine petals, oblong, concave, obtuse, narrower at the base.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, short, tapered, flattened, inserted below the
seed-buds into the common receptacle of the Pointals. Tips linear, fixed
on side to the margin of the threads.

POINTALS. Seed-buds numerous, oblong-egg-shaped, two-celled, covering a
club-shaped receptacle. Shafts turned backward, twisted, very short.
Summits grow out of the shafts longitudinally, hairy.

SEED-VESSEL. Cone egg-shaped covered with capsules which are flattened,
roundish, scarcely tiled, crowded, pointed, one-celled, two-valved,
sitting close to the receptacle, splitting from the outside and
remaining.

SEEDS by twos or solitary, roundish, like berries hanging by a thread
from the inside of each scale of the cone.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Magnolia foliis elipticis, undulatis, acuminatis, subglaucis; floribus
nutantibus, albis; petalis carnosis, obovatis, concavis.

Magnolia with eliptic, waved leaves, tapered to a point, rather
glaucous; flowers hanging down and white; petals thick, inversely
egg-shaped and concave.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. One of the outer petals.

2. An inner petal.

3. The Chives and Pointals, on the receptacle.

4. The outside of one of the Chives.

5. The inside of the same.

6. The same, magnified.

7. The Pointals.


The Magnolia pumila, (as are, generally, all plants upon their first
arrival from China,) has been hitherto treated as a hothouse plant; by
which means, a continued foliage has been preserved: but, from every
appearance of the plant, it is by nature deciduous, and, certainly hardy
enough to be preserved in the greenhouse, if not to bear the exposure of
the open ground. It grows to the height of about two feet, flowers in
the hot-house about September or later, and is propagated by cuttings.
The blossoms are very fragrant, but of short duration. To the late J.
Slater, Esq. of Laytonstone, we owe this plant; which was one of that
rich cargo brought home in the Carnatic, for him, by Captain Connor, in
the year 1793. Our figure was taken at the Hammersmith nursery. The
accession to this magnificent Genus has been considerable within a very
few years: to the species formerly cultivated in Britain, viz. the
_grandiflora_ with its four varieties, the _glauca_ and its two
varieties, the _acuminata_ and _tripetala_, are now added; the
_auriculata_ and _maxima_, from America; the _pumila_, _fuscata_ and
_tomentosa_ or _Yow-lang_, from China; making in all, with the
varieties, fifteen. The short acquaintance we have with the three last
from China, or the knowledge of what part of that extensive country they
are natives, does not enable us to decide, whether they will endure our
winters; although we may on the two from America, as being hardy plants,
or at least equally hardy with the _grandiflora_, being from the same
part of America.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXVII.

GLADIOLUS RINGENS. _Var. multiflorus._

_Gaping Gladiolus._ _Many-flowered Var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sex-partita, ringens.

STAMINA adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six-divided, gaping.

CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Plate XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis sub-linearibus, costatis; floribus ringentibus
cineriis, odoratissimis; scapo multifloro.

Gladiolus with nearly linear-ribbed leaves; blossoms gaping,
ash-coloured, and very sweet scented; stem many flowered.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two-valved Sheath.

2. A Blossom, with the chives in their place, spread open.

3. The Pointal complete.


This is a fine variety of the Gladiolus ringens, given on Plate XXVII.
Vol. I. of this work; the only specimen we have ever seen of it, is in
the Hibbertian collection, from whence our figure was taken, last year,
1801, in the month of May. It is a strong variety, but we cannot
consider the difference it exhibits, from our first figure, of
sufficient prominence to warrant a specific distinction. The bulbs were
received at Clapham, in the autumn of 1800, from the Cape of Good Hope;
they are rather delicate, and the treatment must be such as directed for
the former variety of this species.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXVIII.

HIBISCUS MUTABILIS. _Var. flore pleno._

_Changeable-Rose Hibiscus._ _Double-flowered Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium duplex.

_Exterius_ polyphyllum, persistens; foliolis linearibus, rarius
monophyllum, multifidum.

_Interius_ monophyllum, cyathiforme, semiquinquefidum, persistens; seu
quinquedentatum, deciduum.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, subrotundo-oblonga, basi angustiora, patentia,
tubo staminum inferne adnata.

STAMINA. Filamenta plurima, inferne coalita in tubum, superne (in hujus
apice et superficie) divisa et laxa. Antheræ reniformes.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus filiformis, staminibus longior,
superne quinquefidus. Stigmata capitata.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula quinquelocularis, quinquevalvis; dissepimentis
contrariis, duplicatis.

SEMINA solitaria seu plura, ovato-reniformia.

_Obs._ Capsula aliis ovata, aliis longa; calyx exterior 3-12-phyllus.

EMPALEMENT. Cup double.

_The outer_ many leaved, permanent; leaflets linear, more rarely
one-leaved, many-cleft.

_The inner_ one-leaved, cup-shaped, half five-cleft, permanent; or five
toothed, and deciduous.

BLOSSOM. Petals five, roundish-oblong, narrower at the base, spreading,
fastened at bottom to the tube of the chives.

CHIVES. Threads numerous, united at the base into a tube, at top (in its
apex and surface) divided and loose. Tips kidney-shaped.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft thread-shaped, longer than the chives,
at top five-cleft. Summits headed.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule five-celled, five-valved; partitions contrary,
doubled.

SEEDS solitary, or many, between egg and kidney-shaped.

_Obs._ The capsule of some species is egg-shaped, of some long; the
outer cup, 3-12-leaved.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hibiscus follis cordatis, angulatis, quinquelobis, acuminatis, dentatis;
calyce exteriore octophyllo; capsula villosa; caule arboreo; floribus
plenis.

Hibiscus with heart-shaped leaves, angled, five-lobed, pointed and
toothed; outer cup eight-leaved; capsule hairy; stem growing to a tree;
flowers double.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The double cup with the Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits in their place.

2. The Threads cut and spread open, with those which are perfect and
have the tips, remaining; those which give the plant the double flowered
character being cut away; one tip detached and magnified.

3. The Seed-bud, cut transversely to shew the perfect seeds in their
cells.


Barnard Dickinson, Esq. of Monks-House, near Devises, Wilts, we believe
to be, at present, the only possessor, in Britain, of this fine variety
of Hibiscus mutabilis. The plants were produced in 1788, from some
Jamaica seeds, which were sown at Bowden, another adjoining seat of that
gentleman, and where they have flowered for several years. Although the
flowers are double; yet good seeds are produced, which is common to most
plants of this natural order, such as Alcea Malva, &c. the fullness of
the blossoms being, as usual, formed from some of the chives becoming
petals, many nevertheless remaining perfect; which in these plants stand
particularly distinct from the pointal, being seated on the upper part
of the tube, formed by the connection of the lower part of the threads,
leaving the pointal as perfect as in a single flower. It is also
propagated by cutting, and thrives in rich earth. It may be considered
rather a tree, than shrub, as even in this country, it acquires the
height of from 15 to 20 feet. It is a native of Japan, China, and the
East Indies; where it is much esteemed for the extreme beauty of its
flowers, as well as in our West India islands, where it is also
cultivated. The Single-flowered has been known in England above a
century, having, says the Kew Catalogue, been introduced by Mr. Bentinck
in the year 1690. The specific title is assumed on the singular change
of the flower, from white to flesh colour, before its decay, as shewn in
our figure; which was taken from a fine branch received in a perfect
state from Bowden in the month of November 1801, and obligingly
communicated, to the author, by Mrs. Dickinson.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXIX.

MAGNOLIA FUSCATA.

_Brown-stemmed Magnolia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII. _of Schreb. Gen. Plant._

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 3-phyllus. Petala 6-12. Capsulæ 2-valves, imbricatæ. Semina
baccata, pendula.

CUP 3-leaved. Petals 6-12. Capsules 2-valved, tiled. Seeds, berries,
pendulous.

See MAGNOLIA PUMILA, Pl. 226. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Magnolia foliis elipticis, senioribus glabris, junioribus ramulisque
tomentosis, fuscatis; petalis interne subalbidis, marginibus
elegantissime coloratis.

Magnolia with eliptical leaves, the old ones smooth, the younger as well
as the small branches are downy, and browned; petals whitish within, the
margins elegantly coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The outer fence of the flower, which falls off before the flower
expands.

2. An outer petal of the blossom.

3. A Chive, with the parts complete, before the pollen has been emitted,
a little magnified.

4. The same shewn from the outside.

5. A Chive shewn from the inside with the tips burst, magnified.

6. The Chives and Pointals, natural size.

7. The Pointals as they are placed on the columnar shaft, the Chives
being removed, natural size.


Of all the Magnolias with which we are as yet acquainted, this species
is the most elegant; whether for the growth of the plant, the brilliancy
of the foliage, or the extreme delicacy, fragrance, and beauty of the
flowers. It is a native of China; from whence it was first introduced to
us, in the year 1796, by T. Evans, Esq. of Stepney; from a plant in
whose collection, our figure was taken, this year, 1802, in the month of
February, the general season of its flowering in this climate if kept in
the hot-house; to which station it has, as yet, been doomed, although,
from the general character of the Genus, we should be led to treat it
more hardily. It is increased by cuttings, and layers; but the first is
the best method, as, in the latter mode the branches do not take root
under two years. The plant from which our drawing was made, did not
exceed a foot and a half in height, which leads us to suppose it never
becomes a large shrub, even in China. It thrives in leaf mould, and
light loam. We believe this plant has not hitherto come under the review
of any botanical author.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXX.

DODONÆA TRIQUETRA.

_Three-sided Dodonæa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium tetraphyllum, planum; foliolis ovatis, obtusis,
concavis, deciduis.

COROLLA nulla.

STAMINA. Filamenta octo, brevissima. Antheræ oblongæ, arcuatæ,
conniventes, longitudine calycis.

PISTILLUM. Germen triquetrum, longitudine calycis. Stylus cylindricus,
trisulcatus, erectus. Stigma subtrifidum acutiusculum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula trisulca, inflata, trilocularis; angulis
membranaceis, magnis.

SEMINA bina, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup four-leaved, flat; leaflets egg-shaped, obtuse, concave,
falling off.

BLOSSOM, none.

CHIVES. Eight threads, very short. Tips oblong, curved, approaching, the
length of the cup.

POINTAL. Seed-bud three-sided, the length of the cup. Shaft cylindrical,
three-furrowed, upright. Summit nearly three-cleft rather pointed.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-furrowed, swelled out, three cells, angles
skinny, large.

SEEDS by twos, nearly round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Dodonæa foliis lanceolatis, utrinque attenuatis, glaberrimis; ramulis
triquetris; floribus dioicis.

Dodonæa with lance-shaped leaves, tapered to both ends, very smooth; the
small branches three-sided; flowers with chives and pointals distinct.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.


_Male Flower._

1. The Empalement, magnified.

2. The Empalement and Chives, before the bursting of the tips,
magnified.

3. The same, when the tips have emitted the pollen, magnified.


_Female Flower._

1. The Empalement, magnified.

2. The Empalement, seed-bud, shaft and summit, magnified.

3. A ripe capsule, natural size.

4. One of the divisions of the capsule.

5. A ripe seed, natural size.


The species here figured of Dodonæa is from New Holland; where, Forster
says he found it, as we have given it, with the chives and pointals
distinct; but, that the same species was hermaphrodite, when growing in
New Zealand, which may perhaps be the fact, though we should suspect,
from such circumstance, they were different species. Martyn in his Ed.
of Miller’s Dict. mentions this plant, and throws it to the broad-leaved
species found in the tropical climates of America and Asia. Willdenow,
in his Sp. Plant. Tom. 11. P. 1. p. 345, has made it a species, without
any observation on its parts of fructification; which leads us to
suppose, he had not seen flowering specimens. It is as hardy as any
greenhouse plant we possess, but will not resist the severity of our
frosts; is easily propagated by cuttings, and thrives in almost any
earth. It is so very common in New Holland, that, scarce a parcel of
seeds has arrived from thence, but has contained some of the seeds. The
two figures were taken from two plants at the nursery Hammersmith.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXI.

CERBERA AHOUAI.

_Oval-leaved Cerbera._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CONTORTA. Drupa monosperma. Corolla infundibuliformis.

FLOWERS contorted. Pulpy seed-vessel, one-seeded. Blossom funnel-shaped.

_See Plate 130, Cerbera undulata, Vol. II._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cerbera foliis ovatis, acutis, laciniis corollæ undulatis; calycis
foliolis reflexis.

Cerbera with egg-shaped, pointed leaves; segments of the blossom waved;
leaflets of the cup reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom cut open, the Chives in their place.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit; with the summit detached, magnified.


The oval-leaved Cerbera is a native of the continent of South America,
in Brazil and the other provinces within the tropics; therefore, must be
treated as a tender hothouse plant. It is increased by cuttings,
delights most in a rich soil, and flowers in July, or August. It is said
to acquire the height of ten feet, in its native clime, but, with us, it
seldom attains to three; becoming a handsome, bushy shrub. The flowers
have a faint smell, as have most of this natural order; the whole plant
is replete with a whitish juice, of a most deleterious quality; and the
wood when rubbed emits a disagreeable odour. The fruit is considered by
the indians as a deadly poison against which there is no antidote. Our
figure was taken from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection, Clapham.
Introduced to England, (or rather cultivated about that period) says the
Kew Catalogue, by Mr. Miller, in the year 1739. [Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXII.

IXIA CAPITATA. _Var. Stellata._

_Bunch-flowering Ixia._ _Var. Star-flowered._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6 partita, patens æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo patula.

BLOSSOM 6 divisions, spreading, equal. Summits three, between upright
and spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Plate XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliolis ensiformibus, erectis, scapo brevioribus; floribus
capitatis, confertis, pallide carneis; petalis basi stellatis.

Ixia with sword-shaped leaves, upright shorter than the stem; flowers
grow in heads, crowded, of a pale flesh-colour; petals starred at the
base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. A flower cut open, the Chives remaining.

3. The Pointal.


As we cannot think this plant possesses sufficient distinctive
character, to entitle it to a particular specific title, we have placed
it as above; although we must confess that the root, in this plant, is
very dissimilar from most of the bunch-flowering species. It is a very
hardy bulb, and in no ways liable to rot, increasing very abundantly,
and flowering, without any assistance from heat, about the end of May.
Our figure was taken at the Hammersmith nursery in 1799; to which it had
been introduced, about four years previous.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXIII.

MELANTHIUM VIRIDE.

_Green-flowered Melanthium._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA. Petala sex, ovato-oblonga, patentia, unguibus linearibus
longioribus, persistentia.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, filiformia, erecta, longitudine corollæ, cui
inserta supra ungues. Antheræ globosæ.

PISTILLA. Germen conicum, striatum. Styli tres, distincti, curvi.
Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, trigona, trisulca, trilocularis, ex capsulis
tribus introrsum unitis.

SEMINA plurima, compressa, semiovata.

EMPALEMENT, none.

BLOSSOM. Six petals, oblong egg-shaped, spreading, with linear longer
claws remaining.

CHIVES. Threads six, thread-shaped, upright, the length of the blossom
into which they are inserted above the claws. Tips globular.

POINTALS. Seed-bud conical, streaked. Shafts three, distinct, curved.
Summits blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, three-sided, three furrowed,
three-celled, formed of three capsules united within.

SEEDS numerous, flattened, half egg-shaped.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Melanthium foliis ovato lanceolatis, scapo vaginantibus, erectis;
corollis viridi-purpureis, reflexis.

Melanthium with leaves between lance and egg-shaped, sheathing the stem
and upright; blossoms greenish-purple, reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal with its Chive attached, magnified.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits, magnified.

3. The Seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.


The Green-flowered Melanthium was introduced to the Kew collection, by
Mr. F. Masson, in the year 1788, as we are informed by the catalogue of
that garden, from the Cape of Good Hope. The plant from which our figure
was taken, had been sent to the Clapham collection amongst other bulbs
which were received from Mr. Niven in the year 1800; it flowered the
succeeding year, when our drawing was made. We believe, at present, it
is in no other collection than that of Mr. Hibbert; nor do we think,
without a fresh supply, it will be long seen in this country, as it has
been often introduced, and as often lost; nor does it increase with us
by the root, and the seeds have not, as yet, matured in this country; it
appears to grow luxuriantly in sandy peat earth, and flowers in July.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXIV.

PROTEA SPICATA.

_Spike-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4-petalled. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Proper cup none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Plate XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis bipinnatis, subfiliformibus, pinnulæ canaliculatæ, apice
glandulosæ; capitula spicata, quadriflora.

Protea with twice-divided leaves nearly thread-shaped, small divisions
channelled and glandular at the end; small heads in spikes and
four-flowered.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. One of the small heads of flowers, not yet expanded.

3. The same, with the flowers open.

4. A flower taken from the general cup, with one of the petals detached,
magnified.

5. The Pointal, the Summit detached, magnified.


From a plant now in flower, May 1802, in the Hibbertian collection, our
figure was taken. It is one of those described by Thunberg in his
Dissertatio de Protea, n. 11, and in his Prodromus 25, under the title
we have given it; and which is, certainly, very appropriate; although
many have the flowers growing in spikes. We believe this is the first
time it has flowered in Britain, and that, at present, it is very
scarce; having been introduced by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy in the year
1790. It is a hardy greenhouse plant, is increased by cuttings, and
thrives in a sandy loam with a small portion of sandy peat earth. Native
of the Cape of Good Hope.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXV.

MIMOSA DISCOLOR.

_Two-coloured leaved Mimosa._


CLASS XXIII. ORDER I.

_POLYGAMIA MONOECIA._ Various dispositions: Upon one plant.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

HERMAPH. Calyx 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida.

STAMINA 5 seu plura. Pist. 1. Legumen.

MASC. Calyx 5-dentatus. Cor. 5-fida.

STAMINA 5, 10, plura.

HERMAPH. Cup 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft.

CHIVES 5 or more. Pointal 1. A pod.

MALE. Calyx 5-toothed. Blossom 5-cleft.

CHIVES 5, 10, or more.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Mimosa inermis; foliis bipinnatis, sexjugis, bicoloribus; pinnis acutis,
æqualibus; spicis axillaribus; capitulis globosis; siliquis latissimis,
planis.

Mimosa without spines; leaves doubly winged, in six pairs, and two
coloured; wings sharp pointed and equal; spikes grow from the insertion
of the leaves; small heads globular; pods very broad and flat.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. A Blossom.

4. A Chive, magnified.

5. The Pointal natural size, from an hermaphrodite flower.

6. The same, magnified.


In the year 1788 the seeds of this plant were received, from New South
Wales, by a number of persons; and were raised, the same year, by most
of those who sowed the seeds. The character of the plant from whence it
derives its specific title is much lost in its advanced state; but in
the first two or three years of its growth, it is extremely powerful;
the under part of the young leaves being of a bright purple. It is
extremely difficult to propagate from cuttings; and it has not, as yet,
perfected its seeds in England. It grows to the height of six or seven
feet; is a hardy green-house plant; and thrives most in sandy peat
earth. Our figure was made from a very fine specimen, communicated by
the Hon. W. H. Irby, in September 1801, from his elegant collection at
the Parsonage, Farnham Royal, near Windsor, Bucks.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXVI.

HYPOXIS STELLATA. _Var. flore albo._

_Star-flowered Hypoxis._ _White Var._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, persistens, supera. Capsula basi angustior. Spatha
2-valvis.

BLOSSOM sixparted, remaining, above. Capsule narrower at the base.
Sheath two valves.

_See Hypoxis stellata. Pl. 101. Vol. II._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hypoxis scapo unifloro; foliis sublinearibus, laxis, striatis; petalis
basi maculatis; corolla intus alba.

Hypoxis with but one blossom on the flower-stem; leaves nearly linear,
flexible and scored; the petals spotted at the base; blossom white
within.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Petal of the Blossom, shewn from the outside.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. One of the Chives.

4. The Pointal, cleared of the chives.


This most brilliant variety of Hypoxis stellata, is as old an inhabitant
of our gardens as the other Var. figured in the 2d Vol. of the
Repository, Pl. 101; it was likewise introduced by Mr. F. Masson. The
roots of this plant are rather more tender, or delicate, than those of
the yellow variety; which makes it scarcer, and much less known. The
nursery, Hammersmith, is the only place at which we have seen it; and,
we believe, they have it not in Holland. The root from which our figure
was taken, had been imported, from the Cape, in 1801. It flowers in
April, and increases by the root; should be planted in very light sandy
peat earth, and removed from the pot soon after the flowers are
decayed.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXVII.

CYTISUS TOMENTOSUS.

_Downy-leaved Cytisus._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum, breve, basi obtusum; ore
bilabiato; labio superiore bifido, acuminato; inferiore tridentato.

COROLLA papillionacea.

_Vexillum_ ovatum, assurgens, laterioribus reflexis.

_Alæ_ longitudine vexilli, rectæ, obtusæ.

_Carina_ ventriculosa, acuminata.

STAMINA. Filamenta diadelpha (simplex et novemfidum) assurgentia.
Antheræ simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum. Stylus simplex, assurgens. Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen oblongum, obtusum, basi attenuatum, rigidum.

SEMINA nonnulla, reniformia, compressa.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaved, bell-shaped, short, blunt at the base; mouth
two-lipped; upper lip two cleft, tapered; lower tip three-cleft.

BLOSSOM butterfly shaped.

_Standard_ egg-shaped, rising upwards, turned back at the sides.

_Wings_ the length of the standard, straight, blunt.

_Keel_ a little bellied, tapered.

CHIVES. Threads in two sets (one single, the other nine-cleft) turned
upwards. Tips simple.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong. Shaft simple, turned upwards. Summit obtuse.

SEED-VESSEL. Pod oblong, obtuse, tapered at the base, stiff.

SEEDS a few, kidney-shape, flattened.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cytisus racemis lateralibus, erectis; ramis teretibus, divaricatis;
foliolis ovatis, tomentosis; vexillo crenulato; corollis luteis.

Cytisus with the bunches of flowers growing from the sides of the
branches, which are round and straddle; leaflets egg-shaped and downy;
standard a little scolloped; blossoms yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The standard.

3. One of the Wings.

4. The Keel.

5. The Empalement, Chives, and Pointal, a little magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, magnified.

7. A ripe Pod.

8. The same, split open, to expose the situation of the seeds.


This pretty Cytisus, a native of the Cape of Good Hope, was raised from
seeds at the Hammersmith nursery, in the year 1798. It is rather a weak,
and loose growing shrub, attaining the height of a foot and a half, and
flowering about August. It delights in a light soil, and is propagated
with ease by cuttings; it likewise perfects its seeds. The whole habit
of the plant much more resembles Crotolaria than Cytisus; but the
seed-vessel and empalement preclude its admission to that Genus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXVIII.

ROËLLA DECURRENS.

_Decurrent-leaved Roella._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, turbinatum, quinquepartitum, persistens;
laciniis lanceolatis, acutis, dentatis, magnis.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis, decidua; tubus calyce paulo
brevior; limbus erecto-patens, quinquepartitus, calyce longior.

_Nectarium_ e squamis quinque, conniventibus, in fundo corollæ.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, nectario insidentia. Antheræ
subulatæ, conniventes, longitudine filamentorum, altitudine calycis.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, inferum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
staminum. Stigmata duo, oblonga, depressa, patentia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula cylindracea, calyce brevior, coronatacalyce
patentimajoreque facto, bilocularis.

SEMINA plurima, angulata.

Obs. Campanulæ valde affinis.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, top-shaped, five-divided, remaining; segments
lance-shaped, pointed, toothed, large.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped, deciduous, tube a little shorter than
the cup; border between upright and spreading, five-divided, longer than
the cup.

_Honey-cup_ formed of five scales, approaching, at the bottom of the
blossom.

CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, placed upon the honey-cup. Tips
awl-shaped, approaching the length of the threads, the height of the
cup.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, beneath. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of
the chives. Summits two, oblong, flattened, spreading.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule cylindrical, shorter than the cup, crowned with the
spreading cup which has become larger, two celled.

SEEDS many, angled.

Obs. This Genus is very nigh affined to campanula.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Roëlla foliis lanceolatis, ciliatis, integerrimis, decurrentibus;
floribus solitariis, pedunculis longissimis, axillaribus.

Roella with lance-shaped leaves, fringed, quite entire, decurrent;
flowers solitary, foot-stalks very long, growing from the base of the
leaves close to the stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, Chives, and Pointal, the blossom removed.

2. A Blossom cut on one side, and spread open.

3. One of the scales of the Honey-cup, with its Chive magnified.

4. The Pointal, cleared of the other parts of fructification.


As an annual, this is a most beautiful little plant; but, although the
seeds have been received several times, from the Cape of Good Hope,
where it is native; and first at the Royal Gardens, Kew, in 1787, sent
by Mr. F. Masson; yet, has it never been seen the second year; owing, we
suppose, to the impracticability of procuring ripe seeds in our climate.
Perhaps future trials, by different treatment, may meet with a happier
issue. The figure was taken at the Clapham Garden, in August 1800; when
the plant had apparently attained its greatest perfection; but
unfortunately, no seeds ripened; and at present, we believe, there is no
vestige of the plant in Britain. It appears to delight in sandy peat,
and to be kept under cover, even in the summer season.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXXXIX.

GERANIUM SELINUM.

_Rock-Parsley-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns, five dry berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Vol. 1. Pl. XII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pinnatis, foliolis alternis, laciniatis, hirsutis;
petala bina superiora refracta, 3 inferiora concava, conniventia, recta;
staminibus 5 fertilibus; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with winged leaves; leaflets alternate, ragged, and hairy; the
two upper petals appearing broke back, the 3 lower concave, approaching
and straight; five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives, cut open and magnified.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud magnified.


Geranium selinum claims the priority of introduction, with us, to any of
that numerous division, in this large family, which are tuberous rooted
and stemless, not including the G. triste, G. lobatum, or G. prolificum;
and of which, although we have given many figures, we still possess
drawings of 18 handsome species, besides numberless varieties. It was
introduced in 1788 by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy; is a hardy greenhouse
plant, being less subject to rot, after the decay of the leaves, than
any of its congeners; flowers freely about June, and is propagated by
the root; the seed (sometimes) ripens likewise. Our figure was taken
from a plant, whose root had been received at the Clapham Garden, in
1800. As all the plants figured in the Botanist’s Repository, are titled
with the commonly accepted names, if any, in England; and, as many have
been given under different names, in some other publications, whence
much confusion; we shall defer all attempt at synonim, till the end of
this Volume, when a copious _Index Synonimorum_ will be published, of
all the plants figured in the work, for the use of those who wish for
such authorities.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXL.

GLADIOLUS CARNEUS.

_Flesh-coloured Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

STAMINA adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. 11. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus, costatis, glabris; floribus secundis,
cernuis, carneis; petalis tribus superioribus divergentibus,
inferioribus supra medium punctatis.

Gladiolus with sword-shaped leaves, ribbed, and smooth; flowers pointing
one way, nodding and flesh-coloured; the three upper petals diverge, the
three lower are dotted upon the middle.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. The Blossom spread open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The Pointal, complete.


Our present plant has a nigh affinity with G. communis, and indeed
might, perhaps, be considered as a variety of it; but, as upon a close
examination this will be found to differ, in many respects, we have
adopted the name, quoted by Willdenow, from Jacquin, De la Roche,
Burman, &c. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, and introduced,
from thence, to us, in 1800. Our figure was made at the Hammersmith
Nursery, this year, being the first of its flowering in this country. It
is a very hardy bulb, and increases freely. Flowers in May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLI.

GLADIOLUS ORCHIDIFLORUS.

_Orchis-like-flowered Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens.

STAMINA adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping.

CHIVES ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. II. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis linearibus; scapo polystachio; floribus spicatis,
secundis; laciniis binis lateralibus corollæ latissimis, summa erecta,
tribus inferioribus dependentibus, maculatis.

Gladiolus with linear leaves; flower-stem branched; flowers grow in
spikes, all from one side; the two side segments of the blossom are very
broad, the top one upright, the three lower hang down, and are spotted.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The Pointal, one of the divisions of the summit magnified.


As a singularity among its fellows, this Gladiolus stands prominently
distinct; and the uncommon and curious formation of its flowers will,
undoubtedly, counterbalance, in the eye of the botanist, what they want
in brilliancy of colour. It is a hardy bulb, and appears to require only
the usual treatment of the hardier species of the genus. The Clapham
collection is, we believe, the only one in which it is to be found in
England; to which it was introduced, by Mr. Niven, in the spring of the
year 1801, and where our drawing was made, this present year, in the
month of March 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLII.

XERANTHEMUM FASCICULATUM.

_Bundled-leaved Everlasting-flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

Receptaculum paleaceum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx imbricatus, radiatus;
radio colorato.

Receptacle chaffy. Feather bristly. Cup tiled, rayed; the ray colored.

See XERANTHEMUM SPECIOCISSIMUM, Pl. LI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Xeranthemum foliis caulinis linearibus subteretibus, fasciculatis,
longissimis; floribus solitariis; squamis calycinis lanceolatis,
pallide-luteis.

Everlasting-flower, with the stem leaves linear, roundish, bundled, very
long; flowers solitary; the scales of the cup lance-shaped, and pale
yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A scale of the cup.

2. An hermaphrodite floret, with its seed, magnified.

3. A female floret, with its seed, magnified.

4. The Pointal of a female floret, magnified.


Amongst the number of very beautiful plants introduced by Mr. Niven, and
which now enrich that fund of botanical rarity, the Clapham collection,
this species of Xeranthemum does not stand the least conspicuous. Twelve
years since we possessed but four species of this genus, viz. X.
fulgidum, X. retortum, X. vestitum, and X. speciocissimum; now they
extend to fourteen. The others, as well as the foregoing, are all (but
one, the X. lucidum of Port Jackson, New South Wales) from the Cape of
Good Hope, and introduced to us from thence, by various hands, in the
following order; X. proliferum, through Holland, by Messrs. Lee and
Kennedy; X. formosum and X. candicans by the same, from Cape seeds; X.
sessamoides by Mrs. Gostling, of Hounslow; X. filiforme by Mr. Dunn, of
Cambridge; X. fasciculatum and X. truncatum by G. Hibbert, Esq. X.
argenteum and X. spirale by Montague Burgoyne, Esq. of Mark Hall, Essex.
They are very subject to damp in the leaves, from a confined air
therefore, should be kept in the window, or most airy part of the
greenhouse. The most sandy peat that can be procured is the best for
their growth. They may be all, thus, propagated by cuttings, taken off
in the early part of the month of June; put these into a pot filled with
sand, and covered by a bell-glass the size of the pot; plunge it in a
north or east border, and let the whole be covered with a hand glass,
which must be kept quite close till the cuttings are rooted; then the
inner glass must be removed, and in about a week the pot maybe taken
from under the outer one, when the plants may be removed into small pots
in about a fortnight. Our present plant seldom grows higher than two
feet, of which, at least, one is the foot-stalks of the flowers; it
continues in flower from March till September.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLIII.

PROTEA LAGOPUS.

_Woolly-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4-petalled. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Proper Cup none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis bipinnatis, filiformibus; capitulis spicatis, aggregatis,
quadrifloris; corollis intus purpureis.

Protea with doubly winged leaves, thread-shaped; small heads grow in
spikes close together, four flowers in each; blossoms purple within.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The scales of the cup of one of the small heads.

2. A small head of flowers, one of the flowers open, the rest not yet
expanded.

3. A floret, with the petals expanded.

4. A petal, with its chive, magnified.

5. A Pointal, natural size, with the summit detached and magnified.


This handsome Protea we owe to Mr. R. Williams, of Turnham-green,
nurseryman, who raised it by seeds received from the Cape of Good Hope
in the year 1797. It is one of the handsomest we yet possess of the
winged-leaved kind of Proteas; of which division, in this large family,
there are now in the Hibbertian collection eighteen distinct species.
This plant grows to the height of three feet, makes a very bushy head,
and, when in flower, has a handsome appearance; as there are sometimes
twenty spikes of flowers on it at one time. It is propagated by
cuttings, thrives in sandy loam, and flowers in June; in which month
this year, 1802, our drawing was made at Clapham.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLIV.

HEMEROCALLIS GRAMINEA.

_Grass-leaved Day-Lily._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA campanulata; tubo cylindrico.

STAMINA declinata.

BLOSSOM bell-shaped; tube cylindrical.

CHIVES declining.

See HEMEROCALLIS CÆRULEA, Pl. VI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hemerocallis foliis linearibus, carinatis, gramineis; petalis tribus
interioribus majoribus undulatis, exterioribus minoribus, extus bruneis.

Hemerocallis with linear leaves, keeled and grassy; the three inner
petals larger, waved, the outer smaller, brown on the outside.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer leaf of the Blossom, shewn from the outside.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, cleared of the chives.


We have little doubt but that this is the species of Day-Lily known to
botanists, since the days of Parkinson and Gerarde, under the character
of a small leaved variety of the Yellow Day-Lily, although it has been
many years lost to the country. It is one amongst the many plants
introduced by the late Dr. Sibthorpe, to the Oxford botanic garden. As a
native of the northern parts of Europe, it is as hardy as either the H.
flava or H. fulva, to both which species it bears strong affinity;
although, we conceive, sufficiently distinct from either, to constitute
a species; which however we should not have done, but that the plant is
now known in our gardens, under our specific title. The flowers of this
plant last, in general, two or three days before they decay, are very
sweet scented, and as large as those of the H. fulva. It is increased as
easily as any of the genus, by parting the roots, and thrives in almost
any soil.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLV.

IXIA PUSILLA.

_Dwarf blue Ixia._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6 partita, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM 6-divided, spreading, equal. Summits three, between upright and
spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliis sublinearibus, costatis, crassis; scapo bifloro,
longitudine, foliorum; floribus distantibus, cæruleis.

Ixia with nearly linear leaves, ribbed, thick; flower-stem two-flowered,
the length of the leaves; flowers grow distant, and are blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. A Flower cut open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The Pointal, one of the summits detached and magnified.


This pretty little Ixia is quite new to our gardens, never having, as
far as we can learn, been seen to flower before this year. It is the
most delicate in shape and character of any we have as yet examined; and
as we could not trace it as described in any author, we have given it
the trivial name it here bears. The figure exhibits a large specimen of
the whole plant, which is too weak to support itself, although the
leaves are thick and stiff. Our drawing was made in the month of April,
from a plant in the Clapham collection, where only it is to be found;
the roots having been sent from the Cape of Good Hope in the autumn of
the preceding year. It appears to flourish with the treatment Mr. Allen
has given it, a dry situation, planted in very sandy peat. From the
construction of the root, which has a hard smooth skin, we should be led
to think its increase will not be very abundant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLVI.

GERANIUM INCRASSATUM.

_Fleshy-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns, five dry berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis carnosis, inequaliter pinnatis seu lobatis, laciniis
tridentatis, obtusis; corollis saturate rubris, striatis; floribus
pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with fleshy leaves, unequally winged or lobed, segments
three-toothed, blunt; blossoms of a deep red, and streaked; flowers with
five fertile tips; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives spread open.

3. The Pointal, natural size, with the summits detached, magnified.


Our figure, which exhibits a small plant, of this superb species of
tuberous Geranium, was taken in the month of June, this year, 1802, at
Messrs. Colville’s nursery, King’s Road, Chelsea, and where it is still
in high perfection, this present month of July. We have every reason to
believe, from all the authorities we are masters of, that this plant has
not, till now, flowered in Europe. It forms a very large tuberous root,
by the dividing of which it is to be propagated; as we suspect the seeds
will not ripen on this species more than most of its congeners. It has
the same manner with the rest of the tuberous species, losing its leaves
in winter, when they are subject to rot, if much watered. Appears to
flourish in sandy peat, with a small portion of rotten dung.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLVII.

GERANIUM CILIATUM.

_Fringed-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, pentacoccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis intigerrimis, concavis, lanceotis, marginibus ciliatis;
floribus pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with quite entire leaves, concave, lance-shaped, and fringed at
the edge; flowers with five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives spread open, magnified.

3. The Pointal, magnified.


The singular shape and number of the leaves of this plant, which are but
two, large, concave, thickish, between lance and egg-shaped, and fringed
at the edge, constitute the most essential specific difference it
possesses; the flowers, and other parts, much resemble many of its
fellows. It is from the Cape of Good Hope, and introduced to us by
Messrs. Colvills, nurserymen, of the King’s Road, Chelsea; who received
it, from thence, at the same time with the Geranium incrassatum, of our
last. For the treatment, and increase, we must refer to any other of the
tuberous kind of Geranium.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLVIII.

PROTEA UMBELLATA.

_Umbellated Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals below
the point. Cup proper none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis lineari-spathulatis, glabris; capitulis terminalibus;
bracteis multifidis; floribus luteis.

Protea with linearly-spathulate leaves, smooth; heads of flowers
terminate the branches; floral leaves many cleft; flowers yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. One of the floral leaves or scales of the general empalement,
magnified.

2. A flower, magnified.

3. One of the heads of flowers, divested of the scales, or floral
leaves.

4. The Pointal and seed bud, of one of the florets, magnified.


The Protea umbellata has been cultivated in England since the year 1777,
at which time it was first raised from seeds; received from the Cape of
Good Hope by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, at whose nursery our
figure was taken in the month of August 1800. It is a very hardy plant,
and not at all subject to the very common fate of its congeners; that
is, to damp in the leaves, or rot at the root in winter; is propagated
by cuttings, to be made in the month of April or May, and treated as
directed for the other Proteas. The plant seldom grows higher than three
feet, and does not make many branches; but is of a lively green colour,
both leaves and stem. We have, as usual, adopted the name this plant is
generally known by, it having been so named by the younger Linnæus in
his Suppl. Plant. 118, and by Thunberg in his Dissertatio de Protea, p.
34, and his Prodromus 26. But why or how a small, close head of flowers
may be denominated an umbel we must confess our ignorance in this
application of terms.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXLIX.

PITCAIRNIA SULPHUREA.

_Sulphur-coloured Pitcairnia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, semi-superum, tubulosum, basi
ventricosum, trifidum, persistens; laciniis lanceolatis, erectis.

COROLLA tubulata, calyce duplo longior, marcessens, trifida, demum
tripetala; laciniæ lineari-oblongæ, suberectæ.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, filiformia. Antheræ oblongæ, erectæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen superum, ovato-triquetrum. Stylus filiformis
longitudine staminum. Stigmata tria, contorta.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovatis, obtuse triquetra, trilocularis; loculis
sub-cylindraceis, sub-distinctis.

SEMINA numerosa, alata, linearia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leafed, half superior, tubular, swelling at the
base, three-cleft; segments lance-shaped, erect.

BLOSSOM. tubular, twice the length of the cup, withering, three-cleft,
at last three petalled; segments linearly-oblong, nearly upright.

CHIVES. Threads six, thread-shaped. Tips oblong, erect.

POINTAL. Seed-bud above, three-sided-egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped the
length of the chives. Summits three, twisted.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, bluntly three cornered, three valved;
cells nearly cylindrical, not very distinct.

SEEDS numerous, winged, linear.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pitcairnia foliis non spinosis, flaccidis, longissimis; corollis
sulphureis.

Pitcairnia with leaves without spines, weak and very long; blossoms
sulphur coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement and floral leaf.

2. One of the Petals shewn from the inside to expose the Honey-cup at
its base.

3. The Chives and Pointal.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, the three summits detached and untwisted.

5. The Seed-vessel cut across.


This species of Pitcairnia was sent in the year 1799, from the island of
St. Vincent, by Mr. Anderson, to T. Evans, Esq. Stepney; at whole
gardens the plant has flowered, for the first time, in England this
year, in the month of April, and at which time our figure was taken. The
Pitcairnias are all natives of West India Islands, and stand, as the
link, between the Bromelia or Pine-apple plant, and the Tillandsia; to
either of which Genera the first sight of the leaves, only, would
consign them. Five species are now in Britain, and we do not doubt, but
the species are as numerous, as those of Tillandsia. The cultivation of
all the species is perfectly easy, as they require no particular soil,
or management, if kept in the hot-house; where they grow luxuriantly and
throw out, from the roots, abundance of suckers; which should be taken
off, to encourage the flowering of the central shoot.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCL.

IXIA COLUMNARIS. _Var. grandiflora._

_Columnar-chived Ixia._ _Large flowered Var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sex-petala, patens, æqualis. Stigmata tria, erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM six petals, spreading, equal. Summits three, upright-spreading.

See IXIA REFLEXA, Pl. XIV. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia filamentis basi cohærentibus; floribus subcapitatis corollis
purpureo-violaceis, maximis.

Ixia with threads united at the base; flowers grow nearly headed:
blossoms purple violet, very large.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the sheath.

2. An intire flower cut open in the tube only, which is extended nearly
to the end of the threads.

3. The Chives cut open, magnified.

4. The Pointal complete, one of the Summits detached and magnified.

5. The Seed-vessel cut across.


We have nothing farther to fay upon this fine variety of the
Columnar-chived Ixia than what has been said on the other varieties of
this species; but, that it was introduced from Holland with the
changeable coloured variety in 1799; and that it flowers the end of
June; in which month our drawing was made, this year, at the Hammersmith
Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLI.

LACHENALIA PURPUREO-CÆRULEO.

_Sweet violet-colour’d Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, infera; petalis tribus interioribus longioribus.

STAMINA erecta. Capsula subovata, trialata. Semina globosa.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, beneath; the three inner petals the longest.

CHIVES erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged. Seeds globular.

See LACHENALIA PENDULA. Pl. XLI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia corollis campanulatis, pedunculatis; petalis obtusis,
revolutis; staminibus corolla longioribus; foliis lanceolatis; floribus
purpureo-cæruleis, odoratissimis.

Lachenalia with the blossoms bell-shaped, and with foot-stalks; petals
obtuse and rolled back; chives longer than the blossom; leaves
lance-shaped; flowers of a purplish blue colour, and very sweet-scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower shewn from the outside.

2. The same shewn from the inside.

3. The Pointal and seed-bud.


This very fine species of Lachenalia, with its variety, have been
figured by Prof. Jacquin in his Icones, and Collectanea; but whether
from dried specimens or not we cannot determine. As yet there is no
figure, of either, in any British publication. Mr. Williams, of Turnham
Green, nurseryman, was the first who had it to flower in this kingdom,
and to his kindness in sending us a fine specimen, this year, in April,
we are indebted for our present figure. It is equally hardy with the
rest of the species of the Genus, and propagates abundantly by the root;
delights most in a sandy peat soil.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLII.

HEBENSTREITIA AUREA.

_Golden-flowered Hebenstreitia._


CLASS XIV. ORDER II.

_DIDYNAMIA ANGIOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seeds covered.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulosum, membranaceum, emarginatum,
subtus longitudinaliter dehiscens.

COROLLA monopetala, unilabiata; tubus cylindricus, calyce longior,
latere inferiore ad dimidium dehiscens; limbus unilabiatus, adscendens,
planiusculus, quadrifidus, subæqualis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, horum duo priora sub fauce margini corollæ
inserta, extantia; duo seriora, interiora, inferiora, reflexa ad latera.
Antheræ lunares, compressæ, extrorsum truncatæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen minimum. Stylus filiformis, per fissuram corollas
reflexus. Stigma simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, unilocularis, bivalvis.

SEMINA duo, oblonga, hinc convexa, trisulca, inde plana.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, tubular, membranaceous, notched at the end,
splitting lengthways from beneath.

BLOSSOM one-petalled, one-lipped; tube cylindric, longer than the cup,
splitting from the lower side half way; border one-lipped, ascending,
flattish, four-cleft, the clefts nearly equal.

CHIVES. Threads four, of which the upper pair is inserted into the edge
of the blossom under the throat, standing out; the lower anterior pair
is bent back to the sides. Tips crescent-shaped, flattish, appearing cut
off on the outside.

POINTAL. Seed-bud very small. Shaft thread-shaped, bent back through the
fissure of the blossom. Summit simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, one-celled, two-valved.

SEEDS two, oblong, convex on one side, three-furrowed and flat on the
other.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hebenstreitia foliis linearibus, integris, sub-teretibus, obtusis,
glabris; floribus congestis, racemosis, aurantiis.

Hebenstreitia with linear leaves entire, roundish, blunt, smooth;
flowers grow crowded together in long bunches, of a gold colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A flower.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. A Blossom cut open with the chives remaining attached, magnified.

4. The Pointal natural size.

5. The same, magnified.


The Hebenstreitias may all be reckoned as rather biennial plants than
perennial shrubs; they must be increased every year to keep up a
succession, which is a matter of no difficulty; as, if cuttings of any
of the species are put into separate small pots, and kept from the air
by a hand-glass, for about a month, they will become flowering plants by
September, if the cuttings are made in May. Our present plant was
introduced in 1796 by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, at whose
nursery the drawing was made this year in the month of March. They
mostly flower in spring, and autumn; the flowers are very fragrant at
night. They are natives of the Cape of Good Hope.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLIII.

TALINUM PATENS.

_Panicled Purslane._


CLASS XI. ORDER I.

_DODECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium diphyllum, parvum, superum, apice compressum,
persistens.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, plana, erecta, obtusa, calyce majora.

STAMINA. Filamenta multa, capillaria, corolla dimidio breviore. Antheræ
simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus simplex, brevis. Stigmata quinque,
oblonga, longitudine styli.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula tecta, ovata, trivalvis. Receptaculum liberum.

SEMINA plurima, parva.

EMPALEMENT. Cup two-leaved, small, above, compressed at the tip,
remaining.

BLOSSOM. Five petals, flat, smooth, upright, blunt, larger than the
empalement.

CHIVES. Threads many, hair-like, shorter by half than the blossom. Tips
simple.

POINTAL. Germ roundish. Shaft simple, short. Summits five, oblong, the
length of the shaft.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule covered, egg-shaped, three-valved. Receptacle free.

SEEDS numerous, small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Talinum foliis lanceolato ovatis, sessilibus, planis; panicula ramosa,
terminali; floribus rubris.

Purslane with leaves between lance and egg-shaped, without foot-stalks,
flat; panicle branching and terminal; flowers red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement and Pointal.

2. A Chive, magnified.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.

4. The Seed-vessel nearly ripe, and the cup.

5. A ripe Capsule, cut transversely.

6. A Seed, magnified.


We now exhibit a plant which may, perhaps, be known by many, under the
name of Portulaca, rather than that of Talinum. But, as the adoption of
this new formed genus, upon a division of the species which have
capsules of a different construction, from the old generic character of
Portulaca, seems generally to obtain, amongst modern botanists; such as
Jussieu, Cavanilles, Willdenow, &c. we shall not dissent; although we,
at the same time, take the liberty to say, from the particular tendency
of the old genus Portulaca, to vary in most parts of the flower, both as
to number and character, we have taken up the present genus, but
reluctantly. This plant is a native of the West Indies, and is, by some,
considered as an annual; whilst by others it is treated of as a shrub;
but, indeed, it partakes of both characters, in some measure; for the
stem generally decays down, near to the earth, and often the whole plant
dies, after flowering. It grows to the height of two feet, half of which
is formed of the flower-stem. It makes a very gay appearance about
August, and seeds abundantly. Our figure was taken from a plant in the
collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore; where it flowers, annually,
in the highest perfection. Introduced, says the Kew Catalogue, by
Chevalier Murray, in the year 1776.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLIV.

GERANIUM PROCUMBENS.

_Procumbent Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium caule subcarnoso, prostrato; foliis cordatis, lobatis,
crenato-dentatis; calycibus pentaphyllis; floribus tetrandris, corollis
irregularibus.

Geranium with the stem rather fleshy, and prostrate; leaves
heart-shaped, lobed, between scolloped and toothed; cups with five
leaves; flowers with four fertile chives; blossoms irregular.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives spread open, and magnified.

3. The Pointal, and Seed buds, magnified.


This pretty Geranium is rather a delicate plant, and must be kept very
dry in the winter; as, from the situation of its branches, which are
pressed to the earth, and rather fleshy, they will be very apt to rot,
if loo often watered, or placed in a damp part of the green house. It
was introduced in the year 1781, by G. Hibbert, Esq. in whose
collection, only, we have as yet seen it. Mr. Allen informs us, that it
is to be propagated as well by cuttings, as from the seeds, which it
does not produce plentifully. It has the appearance, if we may judge by
analogy, to be but a biennial, and not an abiding plant. It flowers in
April and May, and should be planted in light rich earth.

Here we have a botanical treat for the learned, who have adopted the new
arrangement of this very vagarious tribe; for in this one plant are
united some of the most essential characters of the three L’Heritierian
Genera, which, justly, formed but divisions of Linnæus’s original genus;
agreeing with Geranium and Erodium in the nectariferous cup; with
Pelargonium in the blossom and seed; but differing from all three, in
having but four fertile chives, with six abortive ones. A fact
ascertained by the examination of above fifty flowers, taken from four
different plants.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLV.

MORÆA NORTHIANA.

_Northian Moræa._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA hexapetala; petala tria interiora patentia, angustiora. Stigma
trifidum.

BLOSSOM six petals; the three inner petals spreading, narrower. Summit
three-cleft.

See MORÆA TRICOLOR. Pl. LXXXIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Moræa scapo foliisque falcatis, glaberrimis, distichis; floribus
terminalibus; petalis tribus exterioribus ovatis, concavis, pendulis,
tribus interioribus sub-erectis, medio retrofractis, apicibus revolutis.

Moræa with the flower-stem and leaves scymitar-shaped, very smooth,
pointing different ways; flowers terminal; the three outer petals
egg-shaped, concave, hanging down, the three inner ones nearly erect,
broke back about the middle, and rolled back at the ends.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The whole plant in miniature.

2. The outer valve of the sheath.

3. The inner valve of the sheath.

4. The Seed-bud, Chives, and Pointal, as they stand in the flower.

5. The Pointal only, the Chives being removed.


About the year 1789 this very fine species of Moræa was introduced to
our gardens by the late, elegantly tasted Mrs. North, lady to the Right
Hon. the Lord Bishop of Winchester; to whose fervor and liberality in
botanical pursuits we owe much of the present prevailing taste for the
science. The plant was brought to England by the Hon. Mr. F. North, on
his return from Portugal; the only remnant of a number, which he had
procured from the gardens of the late Queen of Portugal; immediately on
its arrival it was consigned, in a very sickly state, to the care of
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, who had the good fortune to
recover it.

It is a native of the Brazils, flowers about July or August, propagates
itself by suckers, which it makes from the root, should be planted in
light rich earth, and should be treated as a tender hot-house plant. The
leaves grow frequently to the length of two feet, or more; forming the
appearance of a large fan; the flower-stem proceeding from nearly the
centre. The flowers surpass, in delicacy and beauty of pencilling, any
of this very handsome tribe, and are as transitory as beautiful, their
duration being but of six hours, at most. It seldom happens that more
than one flower is open at a time; but the plant from which our drawing
was made, in 1797, at the Right Hon. the Marquis of Blandford’s, then
resident at Bill Hill, Berks, was in the highest perfection we have ever
hitherto seen it.

[Illustration]

PLATE CCLVI.

IXIA MACULATA. _Var. minor, flore purpureo._

_Spotted-flowered Ixia._ _Small Var. with a purple flower._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, patens, æqualis. Stigmata erectiusculo-patula.

BLOSSOM six divisions, spreading, equal. Summits three, between upright
and spreading.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ixia foliis ensiformibus, glabris, scapo duplo brevioribus; floribus
alternis, sub-spicatis, minoribus, purpureis; petalis basi obscuris,
ovatis, concavis; stigmatibus bifidis.

Ixia with sword-shaped leaves, smooth, twice as short as the
flower-stem; flowers alternate, rather spiked, smaller, and purple;
petals dark at the base, egg-shaped, concave; summits two-cleft.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Flower cut and spread open.

3. The Seed-bud, Chives, and Summits, one summit magnified.


This variety of Ixia blossoms about June; and, like the rest of this
species, continues in flower near a month. It is one of the hardiest,
and certainest blowers, amongst the whole genus, and propagates freely;
no particular treatment is necessary for it, but what has been often
repeated for the management of these plants.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLVII.

FALKIA REPENS.

_Creeping Falkia._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, sub-inflatum, corolla duplo brevius,
quinquangulatum, quinquepartitum; angulis medio dilatatis, compressis
extantibus; laciniis ovatis, acutis.

COROLLA monopetala, campanulata, crenato-decem-partita; limbo patente.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, filiformia, tubo corollæ inserta, erecta,
inæqualia, corolla breviora. Antheræ ovatæ, compressæ.

PISTILLA. Germen quatuor, supera, glabra. Styli duo, capillares,
divaricati, longitudine corollæ. Stigmata orbiculata, lanata.

PERICARPIUM nullum.

SEMINA quatuor, globosa, arillata, in fundo calycis.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, a little inflated, shorter by half than the
blossom, five-cornered, five-parted; the angles widened in the middle,
flattened, standing out; segments egg-shaped, pointed.

BLOSSOM one-petal, bell-shaped, ten-parted by scollops; border
spreading.

CHIVES. Threads five, hair like, inserted into the tube of the blossom,
erect, unequal, shorter than the blossom. Tips egg-shaped, flattened.

POINTALS. Seed-buds four, above, smooth. Shafts two, hair-like,
straddling, the length of the blossom. Summits orbicular, woolly.

SEED-VESSEL none.

SEEDS four, globular, covered by a coat, at the bottom of the cup.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Falkia foliis cordatis, petiolis longissimis; caule repente.

Falkia with heart-shaped leaves, and very long foot-stalks; creeping
stem.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the chives in their place.

3. A Chive magnified.

4. The Pointals, natural size.

5. The same, magnified.


This pretty little plant was first found by Masson and Thunberg, when on
their journey together in the interior of the country of the Cape of
Good Hope, and was named by Thunberg after Professor Falk of
Petersburgh. It was introduced to the Kew gardens in the year 1774. Much
as it resembles Convolvulus, it still has a greater affinity to Nolana
in all its outward parts, but especially in the cup of the flower, and
the situation and character of the seeds. Although the plant is not
shrubby, the stems, which are wiry, do not die down in winter, but take
root, if laid close to the earth. It is encreased by parting the roots
in May; should be planted in sandy loam, and kept in the green-house,
where it will blossom in July or August. Our figure is from a plant
which flowered in the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore.

It is rather singular that the indefatigable, and generally accurate,
Willdenow, should have continued this plant in the sixth class, when he
had such authority, as may be found, page 325, Vol. I, in the Catalogue
of the Kew Garden (where it unquestionably has flowered) for the removal
of it to its proper one, the fifth. It is true, he had reason to
suppose, that no man would be rash enough to form a new Genus, without a
due examination of the plant, on which he grounds his authority; and
that, as Thunberg had discovered and named it, his authority was
sufficient, and of greater weight than any other. But, unfortunately, in
this instance, for the transcriber, the describer has been mistaken, and
has led his followers into error. Indeed, the whole plant in its habit
and character has so little affinity to any hexandrous genus, that,
although Thunberg might have found a single flower, or even a whole
plant, whose flowers had six chives (a circumstance we have not been
able to discover, upon an examination of the flowers from four different
plants), in such a case, as a botanist, he ought to have looked farther,
before he made so violent a decision; and Willdenow ought to have taken
it for granted the alteration would not have been made, but upon due
consideration.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLVIII.

BANKSIA PRÆMORSA.

_Bitten-ended-leaved Banksia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

_Receptaculum commune_ elongatum, squamosum. Corolla tetra-petala.
Stamina limbo inserta. Capsula bivalvis, disperma, interjecto seminibus
dissepimento mobili. Semina alata.

_Common Receptacle_ elongated, scaly. Blossom of four petals. Chives
inserted into the limb of the blossom. Capsule two valves, two seeds,
and a moveable partition between them. Seeds winged.

See BANKSIA SERRATA, Pl. LXXXII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Banksia foliis cuneatis præmorsis, serratis, subtus albo-punctatis,
supra glabris; floribus externè purpureis.

Banksia with wedge-shaped leaves, appearing bitten at the ends, sawed,
dotted with white on the under part, smooth on the upper; flowers purple
on the outside.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower not yet expanded, with the germ at the base.

2. The same open, the extremities of one of the petals magnified, to
shew the situation of the Chive in its place.

3. The Pointal complete, the summit magnified.


The first plants which were seen of this plant in England, were raised
from seeds, at the Royal Gardens, Kew, in 1788. It is a handsome growing
shrub, and the plant from which our figure was made had grown to the
height of seven feet; it having been planted in the conservatory of the
Clapham collection, where it flowered, for the first time, this year, in
July, continuing in high beauty near two months. It is a plant of most
difficult increase, rarely that it is to be propagated by cuttings; and
the wood rots, if laid into the earth. A light soil, of sandy peat, and
a small portion of sandy loam, appears most congenial to its growth.
There are hopes, from the perfect state of the cones, that ripe seeds
may be procured in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLIX.

GERANIUM PILOSUM.

_Hairy Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata 5. Fructus rostratus, 5-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM. Pl. XII. Vol. I.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pilosis, pinnatis; foliolis profundè laciniatis, acutis;
umbella 4-6 flora; pedunculis calycibusque pilosis; floribus pentandris;
radice tuberosa.

Geranium with hairy winged leaves; leaflets deeply torn, and sharp
pointed; umbel from 4 to 6 flowers; fool-stalks of the flowers and cups
hairy; flowers with five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular character.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives cut open, and magnified.

4. The Pointal, with the five Glands, or Honey-cups, at the base.

5. The same, magnified.


This very pretty Geranium was introduced to the Clapham collection, in
the year 1801, by Mr. Niven, from the Cape of Good Hope. It is as hardy
as any of the family, which have tuberous roots; may be increased by
cutting a portion off the old root, in spring, and giving it the heat of
the hot house, at that season of the year. It rarely produces ripe seed;
so says Mr. Allen the manager of the collection; and he recommends the
planting of it in sandy peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLX.

ORNITHOGALUM ODORATUM.

_Sweet-scented Star of Bethlehem._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA. Petala sex, lanceolata, infra medium erecta, supra medium
patentia, persistentia, colorem demittentia.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, erecta, alterna basi dilatata, corolla breviora.
Antheræ simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen angulatum. Stylus subulatus, persistens. Stigma
obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, angulata, trilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

OBS. Filamenta in aliis plana, erecta, alterna apice trifido, media
lacinia antherarum sustinente; in aliis alterna, simplicia.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM. Petals six, lance-shaped, below the middle upright, above the
middle spreading, remaining, losing their colour.

CHIVES. Six threads upright, each alternate one widening at the base,
shorter than the blossom. Tips simple.

POINTAL. Seed-bud angular. Shaft awl-shaped, remaining. Summit blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, angular, three-celled, three-valved.

SEEDS many, roundish.

OBS. The threads in some are flat and upright, the alternate ones trifid
at top, the middle segment supporting the tip; in others the alternate
ones are simple.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ornithogalum racemo elongato; filamentis subulatis; petalis lanceolatis,
obtusis, apice calloso-inflexis; foliis depressis, linearibus, planis.

Star of Bethlehem with the bunch of flowers lengthened; threads
awl-shaped; petals lance-shaped, blunt, thick, and turned inwards at the
point; leaves bent downward, linear, and smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower prop.

2. The Chives and Pointal, the petals being removed.

3. The Pointal.

4. The same, magnified.


This species of Star of Bethlehem, from the Cape of Good Hope, is a
rival in fragrance to the great-flowered, or Arabian species, to which
it is much affined in every part but the colour of the blossom; which,
in this, is yellowish, and in that, it is white with a dark eye. It is
rather a delicate bulb; and to make it flower, should be kept in the
hot-house, where, it will blossom about May or June. Our drawing was
made from a plant which had been received, from the Cape, by Mr.
Hibbert, the preceding year, 1800; and we much fear, what has been said
of the great-flowered species, may be considered as referential also to
this; viz. that the bulbs never flower, but the first year after
importation. We have not been able to trace the appearance of a flower,
from any of the bulbs, this year, which has led us to this conjecture;
indeed, many of the species of this genus have this character; more
particularly, those from Africa.

It has flowered at Vienna, and has been figured by Professor Jacquin in
his Ic. Plant. rar. vol. ii. tab. 432.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXI.

CAMERARIA LATIFOLIA.

_Bastard Mangeneel._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquefidum, acutum, connivens, minimum.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus cylindricus, longus, basi
apiceque ventricosus; limbus quinquepartitus, planus; laciniis
lanceolatis, obliquis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, minima, e medio tubi. Antheræ conniventes,
filo longo terminatæ.

PISTILLUM. Germina duo, cum appendicibus ad latera. Stylus cylindricus.
Stigma capitatum, apice acutum, bifidum.

PERICARPIUM. Folliculi duo, horizontaliter reflexi, oblongi, juxta
latera baseos utrinque lobum emittentes, uniloculares, univalves.

SEMINA numerosa, ovata, membranæ majori ovatæ ad basin insertæ,
imbricata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-cleft, pointed, converging, very small.

BLOSSOM one-petal, funnel-shaped; tube cylindrical, long, bellied out at
the base and top, border five-parted, flat; segments lance-shaped,
oblique.

CHIVES. Threads five, very small from the middle of the tube. Tips
converging, terminated by a long thread.

POINTAL. Seed-buds two, with lateral appendages. Shaft cylindrical.
Summit headed, pointed at top, and two-cleft.

SEED-VESSEL. Seed-pods two, horizontally reflexed, oblong, sending forth
a lobe each way near the side of the base, one-celled, one-valved.

SEEDS numerous, egg-shaped, inserted on the larger egg-shaped membrane
at the base, tiled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cameraria foliis ovatis, nitidis, acuminatis, parallelo-costatis;
floribus corymbosis, terminalibus.

Bastard Mangeneel with egg-shaped leaves, shining, tapered, and ribbed
transversely; flowers grow in broad-topped spikes, terminal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut open, magnified, with the Chives in their place.

2. The Cup, magnified.

3. The Pointal and Cup, the summit magnified.

4. One of the Seed-pods, natural size.


The genus Cameraria, seems to have been rather hastily taken up by
Plumier, as a distinct genus from Nerium; for certainly, the small
difference in the shape of the seed-pod, in which consists the whole
distinctive character of this genus, can hardly be thought of sufficient
moment to that end. As we have found it, we leave it; but could not
refrain from the foregoing remark, as it appears so singular, that
amongst so many who have published the plant, not one should have
discovered the surrounding nectary, or honey-cup, to the mouth of the
blossom, and the long threads at the end of the tips; two such very
powerful features, which distinguish Nerium, from all the rest of this
natural order.

It is a native of Jamaica, Cuba, and Domingo; grows to the height of
thirty feet, and is considered as a timber tree in those islands. The
whole plant is full of a milky juice, similar to what is found in most
plants of this natural order. In England, it must be treated as a
hot-house plant; may be increased by cuttings; flowers in August, and
should be planted in rich earth.

Our figure was taken from a plant in the Stepney collection, belonging
to Thos. Evans, Esq.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXII.

XERANTHEMUM SPIRALE.

_Spiral-leaved Everlasting-Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

Receptaculum paleacem. Pappus setaceus. Calyx imbricatus, radiatus;
radio colorato.

Receptacle chaffy. Feather bristly. Empalement tiled, rayed; the ray
coloured.

See XERANTHEMUM SPECIOCISSIMUM, Vol. I. Pl. LI.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Xeranthemum foliis spiraliter-imbricatis carinatis, sub-obliquis;
floribus solitariis, maximis.

Everlasting Flower with spirally-tiled leaves, keeled, rather oblique;
flowers solitary, very large.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An outer scale of the Empalement.

2. An Hermaphrodite Floret, with the Feather of the Seed.

3. A Female Floret, a little magnified.

4. The Pointal, magnified.


This species of Everlasting Flower is very common near Cape Town; yet,
’till the year 1800, it has never been introduced to Britain. Montague
Burgoyne, Esq. of Mark Hall, Essex, was the first to procure seeds of
it, and it has flowered with him, this year 1802. Our drawing was made
in July, but the flower lasts near three months; it is the largest of
the genus we have as yet seen, and certainly one of the most beautiful.
All the species, from the Cape, are very liable to rot from damps, in
the winter; they should be kept on an airy, dry shelf, as near the glass
as possible, during the foggy months. They, in general, ripen seeds with
us, but are with difficulty increased by cuttings; which should be made
early in spring, planted in pots of sand, and kept quite dry for some
time after they are planted. The grown plants thrive best in a very
sandy peat earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXIII.

VACCINIUM STAMINIUM.

_Green-wooded Whortle-berry._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX superus. Corolla monopetala. Filamenta receptaculo inserta. Bacca
quadrilocularis, polysperma.

CUP superior. Blossom of one petal. Threads fixed to the receptacle. A
berry with four cells and many seeds.

See VACCINIUM ARETOSTAPHYLLOS, Vol. I. Pl. XXX.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Vaccinium foliis oblongo-ovatis, acutis, integerrimis, subtus
subglaucis; pedunculis nudis; antheris exsertis; floribus solitariis;
stamina decem.

Whortle-berry with oblong-oval leaves, pointed, quite entire, and rather
sea-green underneath; fruit-stalks naked; tips without the blossom;
flowers solitary; ten chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives, Pointal, and Seed-bud, magnified.


The species here figured of Whortle-berry, according to the Kew
catalogue, was introduced, first, from North America, to us, by Mr.
William Young, in the year 1770. It is a hardy, deciduous shrub; grows
to the height of three feet; very bushy, with the flowers but thinly
scattered over it; they are white, and deeply cut in the border, which
is rather inclined to spread. It is increased by layers; the berries
seldom ripening in England. A light, sandy peat soil, with a small
portion of loam, is the fittest for its growth; and it acquires a higher
degree of beauty, when sheltered from the scorching rays of the sun, in
summer. Our figure was taken in June, 1801, at the nursery of Messrs.
Lee and Kennedy, from a plant which had been imported in February, the
same year, from Pennsylvania, North America.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXIV.

PROTEA GLOMERATA.

_Woolly-headed Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals below
the point. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Vol. I. Pl. XVII.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis bipinnatis, filiformibus; pedunculo communi elongato,
nudo, pedicellis capitulis longioribus; corollis extus lanatis.

Protea with doubly winged leaves, thread-shaped; common foot-stalk
lengthened, naked, partial foot-stalks longer than the heads of flowers;
blossoms woolly without.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret, natural size.

2. The Blossom, magnified.

3. The Pointal, natural size, with the summit detached, magnified.

4. A Cone, after the flowers have all fallen off.


In the year 1789, this species of Protea was first raised from seeds;
received at the Hammersmith nursery from Vienna; they having been
collected for the Emperor’s gardens at Schonbrun, and from thence
transmitted to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy. Many plants have since been
raised, in different collections; and our present figure was made, from
a fine specimen, in the Hibbertian collection. It is rather delicate
when young, but not easily destroyed when grown to a foot in height. It
will attain to five or six feet, and makes a very pretty appearance,
when in full flower. It may be propagated by cuttings, but with
difficulty, and must be planted in light yellow loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXV.

CYRTANTHUS OBLIQUUS.

_Oblique-leaved Cyrtanthus._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Involucrum polyphyllum; foliolis lanceolatis, persistentibus.

COROLLA monopetala, clavata, curva, apice sexfida; laciniis
ovato-oblongis, incurvis, concavis, tribus alternis apice glandulosis.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, tubo corollæ inserta, erecta, subulata, corolla
dimidio breviora. Antheræ sagitatæ, erectæ, inclusæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, obtuse-trigonum. Stylus filiformis,
longitudine floris. Stigma obsolete-trifidum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subovata, trilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA plura, plana, oblonga, incumbentia.

EMPALEMENT. Fence many-leaved; leaflets lance-shaped, remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, club-shaped, bent, six-cleft at top; segments oblong
egg-shaped, turned inwards and concave, the three outer ones glandular
at the end.

CHIVES. Six threads inserted into the tube of the blossom, upright,
awl-shaped, half the length of the blossom. Tips arrow-shaped, upright,
within the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, obtusely three-cornered. Shaft thread-shaped,
the length of the flower. Summit obscurely three-cleft.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-celled, three-valved.

SEEDS many, flat, oblong, lying upon one another.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cyrtanthus foliis linearibus, obtusis planis, oblique flexis, floribus
pendulis, tricoloratis.

Cyrtanthus with linear, obtuse leaves, flat, and bent obliquely; flowers
hanging down and three-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Part of the Bulb, and the leaves of the plant in miniature.

2. A Flower, cut and spread open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, natural size. Summit magnified.


This most beautiful, and rare plant, together with C. angustifolius,
(the other species) were introduced, in the year 1774, to the Kew
Gardens, by Mr. F. Masson, from the Cape of Good Hope. Mons. L’Heritier,
when in England, procured drawings of both species, and figured them in
his Sertum Anglicum, tab. 15 and 16, under the names of Amaryllis
cylindracea, and A. umbrella: but, as we have had formerly occasion to
mention our objections, in following that gentleman in his alterations
of accepted Genera, in this country; we have, in the present instance,
chose rather the authority of Martyn, Curtis, Willdenow, &c. in
preference; who all have followed the Kew Catalogue in the name of this
Genus. It is true, Thunberg, in his Prodromus Plantarum Capensium, P. 1.
p. 59, has it still under the Genus, Crinum; and, as Crinum pendulum,
our present subject, was known for many years. It is a very scarce
plant, and is to be found but in few collections; the increase being
only from the root, and the importation of the bulbs has been but
seldom. The seeds do not come to maturity with us, of this species;
although those of the C. angustifolius are constantly perfected. It must
be treated as a dry stove plant, or kept on a shelf in the hot-house;
should be planted in sandy loam, and have plenty of room in the pot.
Flowers in July and August.

From the choice collection of Joseph Cowper, Esq. of Clapton, we were
obligingly favoured with the plant, from which this figure was taken.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXVI.

PLATYLOBIUM OVATUM.

_Oval-leaved Flat-Pea._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two Sets. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX campanulatus, quinquefidus; laciniis duabus supremis maximis,
obtusis. Stamina omnia coalita. Legumen pedicillatum, compressum, dorso
alatum, polyspermum.

CUP bell-shaped, five-cleft; the two upper segments very large and
obtuse. The Chives all united. Pod on a foot-stalk, compressed, winged
along the back, many seeded.

See PLATYLOBIUM SCOLOPENDRUM. Pl. CXCI. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Platylobium foliis ovatis, glaberrimis, distichis; floribus solitariis,
axillaribus; ramis teretibus.

Flat-Pea with egg-shaped leaves, very smooth and pointing opposite ways;
flowers grow solitary from the insertion of the leaves; branches
cylinder-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement of the Flower.

2. The Standard, or upper petal of the blossom.

3. One of the Wings, or side petals of the same.

4. The two lower Petals, or Keel of the blossom.

5. The Chives, magnified.

6. The Seed-bud, magnified.


This species of Flat-Pea was brought from New South Wales, at the same
time as P. scolopendrum, and P. lanceolatum, to which last it has much
affinity; but, we think, possesses a sufficient number of differing
characters to constitute a distinct species. It has not as yet been
increased, we believe, in Britain; any attempt, to that end, has
hitherto proved abortive; from which circumstance the plants are at
present scarce, and are to be found in few collections. The same
treatment to preserve, and render the plant flourishing, is required for
this, as for the other species. Our Drawing was made in 1801, at the
Nursery of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, who first introduced
it.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXVII.

JATROPHA PANDURÆFOLIA.

_Fiddle-leaved Physic-Nut._


CLASS XXI. ORDER VIII.

_MONOECIA MONADELPHIA._ Chives and Pointals separate. Threads united.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

_Masculi flores._

CALYX. Perianthium vix manifestum.

COROLLA monopetala infundibuliformis; tubus brevissimus; limbus
quinquepartitus, laciniis subrotundis, patentibus, convexis, subtus
concavis.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, subulata, in medio approximata, quinque
alterna breviora, erecta, basi connexa. Antheræ subrotundæ, versatiles.

PISTILLUM. Rudimentum debile in fundo floris latet.

_Feminei flores_ in eadem umbella cum Masculis.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA pentapetala, rosacea.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, trisulcatum. Styli tres, bifidi. Stigmata
simplicia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, tricocca, trilocularis; loculis
bivalvibus.

SEMINA solitaria, subrotunda.

_Male flowers._

EMPALEMENT. Cup scarcely perceptible.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube very short; border five-parted;
segments roundish, spreading, convex, concave beneath.

CHIVES. Ten threads awl-shaped, close together in the middle, the five
alternate ones shorter, upright, connected at the base. Tips roundish,
versatile.

POINTAL. A weak rudiment lies hid in the bottom of the flower.

_Female flowers_ in the same umbel with the males.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM five-petalled, rosaceous.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, three furrowed. Three shafts, two-cleft.
Summits simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, three-seeded, three celled; cells with
two valves.

SEEDS solitary, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Jatropha calyculata; foliis panduræformibus, apice acutis, basi
inequaliter acutè-lobatis; floribus atro-coccineis.

Physic-Nut with a flower cup; fiddle-shaped leaves, sharp-pointed at the
end, and unequally sharp-lobed at the base; flowers deep crimson.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup and Pointal of a female flower.

2. The Cup and Chives of a male flower.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud of a female flower, without the cup.


This plant, a native of the Island of Cuba, was imported from thence, by
Mr. J. Fraser, King’s Road, Chelsea, in the year 1801. It is,
unquestionably, as handsome a plant as any at present cultivated in our
hot-houses, and its continuing to produce fresh umbels of flowers,
during at least nine months of the year, renders it, perhaps, the most
desirable. It grows to the height of near three feet, producing but few
branches. The leaves are extremely irregular in their form, and, when
the plant is in a sickly state, the older ones are subject to be
slightly blotched, on the under side. Few tropical plants that thrive
with so little heat, or care; nevertheless, we have not any hopes, of
its ever becoming a proper subject for the green-house; but as yet our
experience on that point will not permit us to decide upon it. It should
be planted in a mixture of leaf mould, rotten dung, and loam; and may be
propagated by cuttings. From a plant at the Hammersmith nursery, ripe
seeds have been procured this year; they have the exact appearance of
the seeds of the lesser Palma Christi, but rather smaller in size and
have the same oily character. Indeed, there is so little difference
between some species of the Genus Ricinus, and Jatropha, that botanists
have been puzzled where to place them. Our drawing was made from a plant
in the collection of the Right Hon. the Marquis of Blandford, White
Knights, Berkshire.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXVIII.

GLADIOLUS PLICATUS.

_Plaited-leaved Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

Blossom sixdivided, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus, plicatis, villosis; corollis regularibus;
spatha trivalvi; scapo laterali.

Gladiolus with sword-shaped leaves, plaited and hairy; blossoms regular;
sheath three-valved; flower-stem lateral.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The three-valved Sheath.

2. A Blossom spread open, to shew the situation and direction of Tips.

3. The Pointal, and Seed-bud, one of the Summits magnified.


The varieties, generally comprehended as such, of this species of
Gladiolus, are extended, in number, beyond any others with which we are,
as yet, acquainted, of this extensive genus. Already, we have drawings
of 22; and many more, certainly, there are, even in this kingdom; but we
shall content ourselves with figuring, in the Bot. Rep. 3 or 4, of the
most curious. One of the varieties of this plant, has been in
cultivation with us since the year 1757, when it was raised by Mr.
Miller from Cape seeds. The one represented in our present figure, was
received, from Holland, in the year 1794, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy,
Hammersmith; it is one of the hardiest, and surest flowering varieties
of the species; for there are but few of them which blossom freely. The
bulbs should be planted in sandy peat, about October, and taken into the
hot-house, or placed on a hot-bed, in January, to encourage a rapid and
early growth; by which means, they are more frequently induced to throw
out their flower stems the beginning of April, which otherwise, often
prove abortive. The roots should not be removed from the pots, till the
leaves are somewhat decayed.

This is the Glad. plicatus of Linn. Sp. Pl. p. 53; Thunb. Diff. de Glad,
n. 24; Jac. Ic. Rar. 2. t. 237; of the Kew Cat. Vol. I. p. 63; Martyn’s
Miller, art. Glad. 5. and of Willdenow’s Spe. Plant. T. 1. p. 220; yet,
we cannot refrain from joining in opinion with the late Mr. Curtis that
it approaches as near Ixia, as Gladiolus; for the Ixia rubro-cyanea of
the Bot. Mag. is but a variety of this species. But we cannot so readily
_baboonify_ our senses, with trifling changes, as to think, with a
modern reforming author, that a new genus was necessary, in this
instance, to rectify this part of the Species Plantarum, of the
_incompetent_! _Linnæus._

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXIX.

GERANIUM LACINIATUM.

_Var. bicolor._

_Ragged-leaved Geranium._

_Two coloured-flower Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque.

FRUCTUS ROSTRATUS; pentacoccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits.

FRUIT furnished with long awns; five dry berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis radicalibus integris laciniatisque; laciniis acutis;
petiolis filiformibus; calycibus monophyllis; staminibus quinque
fertilibus; radice tuberosa; floribus bicoloribus.

Geranium with the leaves growing from the root entire and jagged;
segments pointed; foot stalks thread-shaped; cups one-leaved; five
fertile chives; root tuberous; flowers two-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, a little magnified.

2. Chives, natural size.

3. The same, magnified and spread open.

4. The Pointal and seed-bud, magnified.


This very handsome variety of the ragged-leaved geranium, is but little
different from the purple-flowered Var. figured No. CCIV. of this work,
Vol. III, except in the colour of the flowers, and that the leaves are
rather more cut. It was introduced the same year to the Hibbertian
collection, flowers in the same month and requires the same treatment,
as the above variety.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXX.

PROTEA PULCHELLA.

_Waved-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or four petalled. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis lanceolatis, undulatis, rubro marginatis, pilosis; squamis
calycis tricoloratis; capitulo erecto, terminali.

Protea with lance-shaped leaves, waved, margined with red and hairy;
scales of the cup three-coloured; flower head upright, and terminal.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret complete with the seed-bud.

2. The four Petals of the same, with the Tips shewn at their ends.

3. Pointal and Seed-bud.


This Protea, from the Cape of Good Hope, merits the attention of those
who wish to beautify their collections, with distinguished objects; as,
it flowers the third year from the seed, and is equally handsome with
Protea mellifera. The cone for two months before it opens is extremely
beautiful, and it is in flower nearly one more; and this, at a time when
the plant has, scarcely, attained a foot in height. It is not inclined
to branch till it has flowered, but from the lower part of the cone the
branches begin to extend. The leaves from their hairiness have a whitish
appearance, are finely edged with a light pink, and are slightly waved.
It is propagated by cuttings, should be planted in light sandy loam, and
flowers in September. Our drawing was made from a plant in the
Hibbertian collection; to which it was introduced by Mr. Niven, in the
year 1799, amongst the first seeds which were sent, by him, from the
Cape.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXI.

ASCLEPIAS GIGANTEA.

_Gigantic Swallow-wort, or Auricula tree._


CLASS V. ORDER II.

_PENTANDRIA DIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Two Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquefidum, acutum, parvum, persistens.

COROLLA. Monopetala, plana vel reflexa, quinquepartita, laciniis
ovato-acuminatis, levitèr cum sole flexis.

_Nectaria_ quinque, tubo filamentorum infra antheras adnata, carnosa seu
cucullata, e fundo corniculum acutum introrsum flexum exserentia.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, in tubum, basi ventricosum, connata. Antheræ
oblongæ, erectæ, biloculares, membrana inflexa, stigmati incumbente
terminatæ, utrinque ala reversa deorsum latescente. Pollen connatus in
corpuscula decem, obverse-lanceolata, plana, in loculis antheræ
dependentia e filis brevibus, sæpe flexuosis; quæ per paria annexa sunt
tuberculis quinque, cartilagineis, didymis, angulis stigmatis, inter
antheras, adhærentibus.

PISTILLA. Germina duo, oblonga, acuminata. Styli duo, subulati. Stigma
utrisque commune, magnum, crassum, pentagonum, supra apicibus antherarum
tectum, medio umbilicatum.

PERICARPIUM. Folliculi duo, magni, oblongi, acuminati, ventricosi,
uniloculares, univalves.

SEMINA numerosa, imbricata, pappo coronata. Receptaculum membranaceum,
liberum.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-cleft, sharp, small, remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal flat or reflexed, five-parted; divisions pointedly
egg-shaped, slightly bending with the sun.

_Honey-cups_ five, growing to the tube of the threads below the tips,
fleshy or hooded, protruding a sharp horn from the bottom which bends
inwards.

CHIVES. Five threads collected into a tube swelling at the base. Tips
oblong, upright, two-celled, terminated by an inflex membrane laying on
the summit, having a reversed wing on each side, growing broader
downwards. The pollen is collected into ten small bodies inversely
lance-shaped, flat, hanging down into the cells of the tips by short
threads, often flexible, which are fixed by pairs to five skinny twin
tubercules, adhering to the angles of the summit, between the tips.

POINTALS. Seed-buds two, oblong, tapered. Shafts two, awl-shaped. Summit
common to both, large, thick, five-cornered, covered at top by the ends
of the tips, umbilicate in the middle.

SEED-VESSEL. Two pods, large, oblong, tapered, bellied, one celled, one
valved.

SEEDS numerous, tiled, crowned with a feather. Receptacle skinny, free.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Asclepias foliis candidis, obovato-oblongis; petiolis brevissimis;
laciniis corollæ reflexis.

Swallow-wort with whitened leaves, between inversely egg-shaped and
oblong; foot-stalks very short; segments of the blossom reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives and Pointal, without the five outer scales or honey-cups,
magnified.

4. One of the outer scales, magnified.

5. One of the inner, upright scales, which surround the seed-buds,
magnified.

6. The Seed-buds, Shafts and Summit, with the chives attached to the
summit, magnified.


The Gigantic Swallow-wort, a native of the East Indies, is a very tender
hot-house plant; is very subject to lose its leaves in winter, and
requires the assistance of the bark-bed to keep it in perfection. In the
Kew Catalogue, it is said to have been cultivated so long ago as the
year 1690, at the Royal Gardens, Hampton Court. To render it vigorous
and flourishing, it should be planted in rich earth; composed of, one
half rotten dung, and the other leaf mould and loam; and watered but
sparingly in winter. It is seldom propagated but from seeds, which are
frequently procured from the East, and as often from the West Indies. In
the island of Jamaica, it is known by the name of the Auricula tree,
where it attains to the height of six or seven feet. Our drawing was
taken from a most magnificent specimen, obligingly sent us by Mrs.
Methuen, (of which our figure represents but a small side bunch),
measuring above a foot in diameter. The plant, we believe the finest in
England, is in the collection of Paul Methuen, Esq. Corsham, Wilts.

Much as we are inclined to tread in the beaten path of our predecessors,
and, more particularly, that of the greatest luminary of this intricate
science, Linnæus, yet can we, but with regret, forbear an alteration we
think so necessary, in the classification of this genus. That the class
Gynandria may, or ought to be excluded from the twenty-four, we shall
not be forward to give our suffrage, in conjunction with some modern
reformers; and, as they term themselves, improvers upon the Linnæan
system; but, whilst it is retained, this genus has stronger claims, in
our opinion, upon it, than any which has hitherto been thrown to it.
Indeed we had so classed it, upon such grounds had formed its generic
character; and had hopes, no one would have disputed our position as
just, upon an inspection of the dissections annexed to the figure. Yet
fearing, by some, it might be considered as a perplexing innovation; for
innovation in all cases is certainly more or less so, the genus having
passed the scrutinising ordeal of so many botanists; we have,
reluctantly, for the present, given up what, nevertheless, we shall
consider as necessary for some bolder hand than ourselves to undertake.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXII.

EMBOTHRIUM LINEARE.

_Narrow-leaved Embothrium._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus. Corolla tetrapetala. Stamina limbo petalorum inserta.
Folliculus polyspermus. Semina alata.

EMPALEMENT none. Blossom four-petalled. Chives inserted into the limb of
the petals. A one-celled pod many seeded. Seeds winged.

See EMBOTHRIUM SERICEUM, Pl. C. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Embothrium foliis linearibus, subtomentosis, uninerviis; florum racemis
axillaribus; corollis albis. Semina nuda.

Embothrium with linear leaves rather downy, one-nerved; the small heads
of flowers grow from the insertion of the leaves; the blossoms white.
Seeds naked.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower, complete.

2. One of the petals, with the chive at the end.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

4. A ripe Seed-pod burst and empty.

5. A ripe Seed.


This species of Embothrium was introduced to Britain at the same time as
the Silky Embothrium, of our second volume, plate 100; and has been
considered but as a third variety of it, by Dr. Smith, in his First
Number of New Holland Botany, page 23. But the total difference in the
habit of the plant, except in the shape of the flowers, has induced us
to give it a specific title. It grows to the height of five or six feet,
not very bushy; abounding through the whole year in a succession of
flowers, which proceed from the young branches; ripe seed being produced
upon the plant at the same time. It should be planted in light sandy
peat, and kept in a dry part of the green-house, as the younger branches
are apt to suffer from damps in the months of December and January. Our
drawing was made at the Hammersmith nursery, in the year 1800, about the
month of July.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXIII.

LOBELIA PINIFOLIA.

_Pine-leaved Lobelia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIA MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquedentatum, minimum, germini
circumnatum, marcescens; denticulis subæqualibus.

COROLLA monopetala, irregularis; tubus cylindraceus, calyce longior,
superne longitudinaliter divisus; limbus quinquepartitus; laciniis
lanceolatis, quarum superiores dure minores, magis reflexæ, profundius
divisæ, constituentis labium superius; tres reliquæ inferiores magis
patentes, sæpius majores.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, longitudine tubi petali. Antheræ
connatæ in cylindrum oblongum, basi quinquefariam dehiscentem.

PISTILLUM. Germen acuminatum, inferum. Stylus cylindraceus, longitudine
staminum. Stigma obtusum, hispidum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, biloculariis, apice dehiscens, cincta
calyce.

SEMINA plurima, minima.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, five-toothed, very small, growing round the
seed-bud, withering; toothlets nearly equal.

BLOSSOM one petal, irregular; tube cylindric longer than the cup,
divided longitudinally above; border five-parted; segments lance-shaped,
of which the two upper ones are smaller, more reflexed, deeper divided
and form the upper lip; the three other lower ones spread more, and
often are larger.

CHIVES. Five threads, awl shaped, the length of the tube of the petal.
Tips joined together forming an oblong cylinder, splitting into five
divisions at the base.

POINTAL. Seed-bud tapered, beneath. Shaft cylindrical the length of the
chives. Summit blunt, hairy.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, two celled, splitting at top, girt by
the cup.

SEEDS numerous, small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lobelia foliis lanceolato-linearibus, confertis, integerrimis;
denticulis calycinis longissimis; floribus cæruleis.

Lobelia with leaves between lance and linear-shaped, crowded together,
and quite entire; toothlets of the cup very long; flowers blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the chives in their place.

3. A half ripe seed-pod.

4. The Pointal, with the summit detached and magnified.

5. A ripe seed-vessel, cut transversely.


About the year 1786, this plant was sent by Mr. F. Masson, to the royal
gardens at Kew; as we find it in the catalogue of that collection.
Nevertheless a single plant of it was not to be found in any of our
botanic gardens, for these few years back; until the recent introduction
of it, by Mr. Niven, to the Hibbertian Collection in 1789. It is a very
delicate shrub; grows to the height of eighteen inches; branching but
little, and producing mostly two flowers at the termination of each
branch. It may be increased by cuttings, or from the seed, which ripens
in this country; but, like most of the species of this genus, it is not
a long lived plant. It approves most of a light sandy peat, with a small
mixture of loam; and to be kept in rather a small pot, in proportion to
the general size used for plants of the same bigness. Flowers in July.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXIV.

ORNITHOGALUM LACTEUM.

_Large White-flowered Star of Bethlehem._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, erecta, persistens, supra medium patens. Filamenta
basi dilatata. Capsula 3-locularis. Semina subrotunda, nuda.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, upright, remaining, spreading above the middle.
Threads widened at the base. Capsule 3-celled. Seeds roundish, naked.

See ORNITHOGALUM ODORATUM. Pl. CCLX. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ornithogalum racemo longo; filamentis subulatis, alternis
sub-lanceolatis; bracteis membranaceis, ovatis, pedunculo duplo
brevioribus; foliis lanceolatis, acutis, ad oras villosis; floribus
albidis.

Star of Bethlehem with a long flower spike; threads awl-shaped,
alternate ones nearly lance-shaped; flower props skinny, egg-shaped,
twice as short as the fruit-stalk; leaves lance-shaped, acute, finely
haired at the edges; flowers white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. One of the Flower-props.

2. The Chives and pointal, the petals being removed.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.


This fine species of Star of Bethlehem, from the Cape of Good Hope, was
first introduced to Britain, from thence by Lady Miller, of Froyle Place
near Alton, Hampshire, in the year 1796. It is a very hardy bulb, but
does not flower every year, in this country. It will live with a very
slight protection from the severest frosts in winter; should be planted
in sandy loam; kept rather dry after the decay of the leaves; and only
removed from its pot to renew the earth. It propagates by the root, and
flowers in July. Our drawing was made from a plant which had been
received from the Cape, in the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXV.

GLADIOLUS RINGENS.

_Var. undulatus._

_Gaping-flowered Gladiolus._

_Waved-flowered Var._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six divisions, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis linearibus, costatis; floribus ringentibus, cineriis;
petalis undulatis.

Gladiolus with linear leaves, ribbed; flowers gaping, ash coloured;
petals waved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two valves of the Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the chives in their place.

3. The Pointal, one of the divisions of the summit magnified.


The Clapham collection we believe to be the only one which, at present,
possesses this handsome variety of the Gaping Gladiolus. It was
introduced, from the Cape, by Mr. Niven in 1800. Our drawing was made in
August of the above year, but its natural season of flowering, if we may
judge by analogy, should be about May or June, at latest. It increases
by the root, and should be treated as a tender Gladiolus. The flower is
without smell.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXVI.

MONSONIA FILIA.

_Hairy-leaved Monsonia._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER II.

_POLYADELPHIA DODECANDRIA._ Threads in many Sets. Twelve Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum erectum; foliolis lanceolatis, sub apice
mucronatis, æqualibus, persistentibus.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, obovata æqualia, flaccida, plicata, margine
inequaliter dentata.

STAMINA. Filamenta quindecim, erecta, connata in quinque corpora, e 3
singula. Antheræ oblongæ, versatiles.

PISTILLUM. Germen pentagonum, breve. Stylus columnaris. Stigmata
quinque, recurva, oblonga.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Fructus rostratus, pentacoccus.

SEMINA solitaria, arillata; arista longissima demum spirali.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved upright; leaflets lance-shaped, pointed at
the end, equal, and remaining.

BLOSSOM. Five petals, inversely egg-shaped, equal, flaccid, plaited,
unequally toothed at the margin.

CHIVES. Fifteen threads, upright, formed into five bodies, three to
each. Tips oblong, versatile.

POINTAL. Seed-bud five-sided, short. Shaft columnar. Five summits,
recurved and oblong.

SEED-VESSEL none. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry berries.

SEEDS solitary, in a seed-coat with a very long awn, becoming spiral.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Monsonia foliis inciso-lobatis, hirsutis; lobis inequaliter dentatis.

Monsonia with deeply-cut lobes, hairy; lobes unequally toothed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Petal of the flower, shewn from the backside.

3. A Petal of the flower, shewn from the inside.

4. The Chives and Pointal divested of the petals.

5. The Chives spread open, to shew the number of distinct bodies into
which they are divided.

6. The Seed bud, Shaft, and Summits.

7. A Seed-bud cut transversely.

8. One of the berries, taken from its coat, a little advanced to
maturity.


The Genus Monsonia was formed by Linnæus, in honour of the Right Hon.
Lady Ann Monson, whose enthusiasm, in pursuing the study of natural
history, knew no bounds; and whose liberal and fostering hand
contributed more, perhaps, than any of her cotemporaries, by her
encouragement and example, to the then incipient, but now so prevailing
taste for the study of Botany.

The Monsonias are all natives of the Cape of Good Hope; are rather
herbaceous plants than shrubs, at least, those generally denominated
such; for although the Geranium spinosum has been given to this genus,
we have our doubts whether it ought not to remain with Geranium. They
are hardy green-house plants, flower in the months of July and August;
are propagated by the cutting small portions from the roots; and should
be planted in a mixture of sandy peat and loam. This species was
introduced by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy in the year 1788. Our drawing was
made from a plant in the Hibbertian collection..

It is rather strange that Thunberg in the second part of his Prod.
Plant. Cap. published in 1800; and Wildenow in his Spec. Plant. volume
the third, part 1, published the same year, should both, in the
classification of this genus rather wish to alter its class, as Schreber
and Cavanilles had done before them, than give it, in their works, under
the class and title where it was originally placed, by the founder of
the genus; or take it up on the authority of the catalogue of the plants
in the Kew gardens; where, unquestionably, two species, at least, had
flowered antecedent to the publication of that work. But indeed both of
them, have so jumbled the different synonims which they have adapted to
the three species known at present in our gardens under the names of M.
speciosa, M. lobata, and M. filia, that it is nearly impossible to
recognize in either publication the different plants under the
charactered titles they bear with us. As for Thunberg, he has thrown
them all to Geranium, under new specific names: and thus, has made his
alteration complete. Wildenow indeed has but changed the class, and
altered one specific title; but by new naming that which is our M.
speciosa he has been obliged to give the name of speciosa to our present
plant, and place the specific _filia_, as given by Linnæus to this, as a
synonim to M. lobata, upon the authority of Cavanilles; who, we must
presume, had never seen more than dried specimens of any species of this
genus. But however, we shall not pretend to clear up the bewildered
state, in which we there find this tribe of plants; or attempt to throw
any farther light on a subject that seems to have been, short as it is,
a complete puzzle to two such eminent botanists; but merely state our
ideas, that we think these plants were sufficiently well arranged under
the first assumed class, and equally readily to be known by their old
specific titles.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXVII.

PROTEA SPECIOSA.

_Var. foliis glabris._

_Smooth-leaved Shewy Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, inserta petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals below
the point. Cup proper none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis lanceolatis, glabris; squamæ calycinæ interiores barbatæ,
apice incurvatæ, fuscæ.

Protea with lance-shaped smooth leaves; the inner scales of the
empalement are bearded, turned inward at the point and brown.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Seed-bud and Pointal.

2. A Flower spread open, with the tips in their places.


This fine variety of the Shewy Protea might, indeed, almost pass for a
distinct species. It was introduced, to Britain, in the year 1794, by
Mr. Williams, Nurseryman, of Turnham Green. The only living specimen in
Britain, we believe, of this plant, is at present in the Hammersmith
collection. As yet no increase has been produced from it, either by
cuttings, or seeds; for although the plant flowers every year, and the
seeds in the cone, or rather flower-cup, seem perfect, they never
vegetate. It is a hardy, and handsome growing Protea, requiring little
attention, and may be placed in any part of the green-house; grows about
three feet high, very bushy, and flowers near the month of October.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXVIII.

MELALEUCA CORONATA.

_Flax-leaved Melaleuca._


CLASS XVIII. ORDER IV.

_POLYADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads in many Sets. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX quinquefidus, semisuperus. Petala quinque. Filamenta multa
longissima, connata in quinque corpora. Pistillum unum. Capsula
3-locularis.

CUP five-cleft, half above. Petals five. Threads numerous, very long,
united into five bodies. Pointal 1. Capsule 3-celled.

See MELALEUCA ERICÆFOLIA, Pl. 175. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Melaleuca foliis oppositis, lanceolatis, enerviis, glaberrimis; floribus
sessilibus, ad basin ramulorum confertis; filamentis pinnatis,
incurvatis, purpureis.

Melaleuca with opposite, lance-shaped leaves, without nerves and very
smooth; flowers grow close to the branches, and crowded together at
their base; threads winged, turned inward, and purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement and Seed-bud.

2. The same, shewn in a front view.

3. A Petal.

4. One of the five bundles of Chives, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud with the shaft remaining, the cup cut off.


This singularly delicate little plant, a native of Botany Bay, was first
raised from seeds in this country by Mr. I. Fairbairne of the Physic
Gardens, Chelsea, in the year 1792. It is rather more tender than most
of the plants we have, as yet, received from thence; requires to be kept
in a dry and airy part of the green-house and watered but seldom, in the
winter. It grows to the height of about two feet, perfects its seeds,
and may be increased by cuttings; should be planted in very sandy peat
earth, and kept in a small pot proportionally to its size. Our figure
was taken from the branch of a plant, in the conservatory, at the
Hammersmith Nursery, in the month of August, 1800.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXIX.

XERANTHEMUM FASCICULATUM.

_Var. flore albo._

_Bundle-leaved Everlasting-flower._

_White Var._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

RECEPTACULUM paleaceum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx imbricatus, radiatus;
radio colorato.

RECEPTACLE chaffy. Feather bristly. Cup-tiled, with a ray; the ray
coloured.

See XERANTHEMUM SPECIOSISSIMUM, Pl. LI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Xeranthemum foliis caulinis linearibus, sub-teretibus, fasciculatis,
longissimis; floribus solitariis; squamis calycis lanceolatis, albis.

Everlasting-flower with the stem-leaves linear, roundish, bundled, very
long; flowers solitary; scales of the cup lance-shaped and white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An Hermaphrodite Floret, with its seed, magnified.

2. A Female Floret, with its seed, magnified.

3. The Pointal from a Female Floret, magnified.


As a fine variety of the Bundle-leaved Everlasting flower, figured in
this work, Pl. 242 of this Vol.; we now present this plant to our
friends. Tis true, it may be thought by some, at first sight, there is
too considerable a degree of similitude in the plants to deserve a
particular plate for each; but, upon a nigh investigation, it will be
found there exists a stronger marked difference, in the growth of the
plants, than, at first, meets the eye; not certainly enough to
constitute a specific difference, but undoubtedly a strong variety. The
flower stems, in this, grow more straddling; and the long stem-leaves
are more dispersed on the upper part of the plant; at the base they
nearly resemble each other. We have our figure from the Clapham
Collection, to which the plants were introduced at the same time, and
through the same channel as the above cited species; seeds of both
having been sent from the Cape of Good Hope, by Mr. Niven, in the year
1799. For all that relates to the management of this, we most refer our
readers to the figure just alluded to; as its habits, time of flowering,
&c. in nothing differ.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXX.

PERSOONIA LATIFOLIA.

_Broad-leaved Persoonia._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus. Petala 4, basin versus staminifera. Glandulæ 4 ad basin
germinis. Stigma obtusum. Drupa monosperma.

EMPALEMENT none. Petals four, supporting the chives near the base. Four
glands at the base of the seed-bud. Summit blunt. A pulpy berry with one
seed.

See PERSOONIA LANCEOLATA, Pl. LXXIV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Persoonia foliis subovatis, utrinque glabris, crassiusculis, uninerviis;
petiolis brevibus, tortis.

Persoonia with leaves approaching to inversely-egg-shaped, smooth on
both sides, thickish, one-nerved; foot-stalks short and twisted.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower.

2. One of the Petals, with its Chive.

3. The Pointal and Seed-bud.

4. The same, magnified.

5. The receptacle, with the four glands at the base of the Seed-bud,
magnified.


The very exact conformation of the flower in this, when compared with
the other two species of the genus, already figured in this work; is a
circumstance but seldom to be found, in plants, where the whole habit is
so totally different in each species, as we here find it. This plant,
until it flowered, was considered as a species of _Conchium_, (one of
the Genera made by Dr. Smith from Banksia,) as nighest in appearance to
some species of that Genus. It has flowered, for the first time in
England, in the month of October, 1802. The plant being set in the
conservatory at the Hammersmith-Nursery, the flowers have continued to
succeed each other, progressively, upon the young branches, without
intermission, as the shoot grows, from the base of each leaf. It is with
great difficulty raised by cuttings; but, from every appearance, seed
will be procured in this country; as the seed-buds have already become
pretty large, and seeds of the other species have matured with us. It
was first raised from seed, communicated by Colonel Paterson, from Port
Jackson, New South Wales, in the year 1795. Sandy loam, or a mixture of
sandy peat and loam, is the soil it most approves.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXI.

METROSIDERA HIRSUTA.

_Hairy Metrosidera._


CLASS XII. ORDER I.

_ICOSANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twenty Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, semisuperum.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, concava, subsessilia, decidua.

STAMINA longissima, libera, filiformia. Antheræ incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum, fundo calycis adnatum. Stylus filiformis,
erectus. Stigma simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula campanulata, 3 seu 4 locularis, 3 seu 4 valvis.

SEMINA plurima, rotundato-angulata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaved, five-cleft, half above.

BLOSSOM. Five petals, concave, nearly sessile, falling off.

CHIVES very long, free, thread-shaped. Tips lying on the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud top-shaped, growing to the bottom of the cup. Shaft
thread-shaped, upright. Summit simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule bell-shaped, 3 or 4 celled, 3 or 4 valved.

SEEDS many, roundedly-angular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Metrosidera foliis oppositis, basi cordatis, amplexicaulibus; ramulis,
pedunculis, calycibusque pilis rubro-fuscis tectis.

Metrosidera with opposite leaves, heart-shaped at the base and embracing
the stem; small branches, flower-stems, and flower-cups covered with
reddish-brown hairs.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Seed-bud and Cup, divested of the Petals and Chives.

2. One of the segments of the Cup, shewn from the under side.

3. A Chive magnified.

4. A Seed-bud cut transversely.


Although little can be said in favour of the flowers of this plant, yet
the singularity of its foliage excites our attention, as very distinct
from all its congeners. It grows with us to the height of six or seven
feet; at which size, it produces its blossoms. The first plants were
raised from seeds in the year 1787 at the garden of the late Dr.
Pitcairne at Islington. It is increased by cuttings, after the usual
mode made use of for propagating Botany Bay plants; that is to say, by
placing the cuttings in the heat of a hot-house, or hot-bed, early in
the month of March, till they are rooted. It is a hardy green-house
plant when old, but rather delicate when young. Our figure was began
from a plant in the Hibbertian collection, which flowered in the month
of August, 1800; and finished from one at the Hammersmith Nursery, in
November, 1802. A short apology may be thought necessary for our
retaining the original mode of terminating the name of this Genus,
rather than as it is given by most authors at present. Our plea is that
only of priority, and the name under which the plants have been known,
in our gardens, these 30 years; since, indeed, Sir J. Banks’s return
from the South Seas. A slight mistake we wish likewise to notice, in the
etymology of the word Metrosideros, as given by Dr. Martyn in his
edition of Miller’s Dictionary; it is there said to be thus derived,
Μητρα, medulla, the heart or pith of a tree, and σιδηρος iron; supposing
the heart of the trees to possess the hardness, or colour of iron. Now
the true idea on which the name of the Genus was founded, is the shape
and hardness of the seed-vessel, thus; Μετρον a measure, and σιδηρος
iron, as the appearance of the capsule, when ripe, will fully justify.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXII.

GERANIUM SPATHULATUM.

_Var. curviflorum._

_Spatula-leaved Geranium._

_Curled-flowered Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis integerrimis, spathulatis, sub-ciliatis calycibus
monophyllis; petalis recurvatis; staminibus quinque fertilibus; radice
tuberosa.

Geranium with quite entire leaves, spatula-shaped, slightly fringed;
cups one-leaved; petals recurved; five fertile chives, root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement magnified.

2. The Chives spread open.

3. The Pointal natural size.

4. The same magnified.


This fine variety of the Spatula-leaved Geranium is, as yet, only to be
found, in the Hibbertian collection. Its date in Britain is the same as
the G. spathulatum, of this work, plate 152, Vol. III. We should not
have considered the curved character of the petals, alone, a sufficient
groundwork to constitute, even a variety; but the slight fringe which
may be discovered on the leaves of our present plant, and not in the
smallest degree to be traced in the other, determined this to be, in our
opinion, deserving notice, at least as a variety. For the treatment and
culture of the plant, see G. punctatum of the Botanist’s Repository,
plate 60, Vol. I. which may well serve for this.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXIII.

POGONIA GLABRA.

_Smooth-leaved Pogonia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA monopetala; tubus ad faucem pilosus. Stamina supra medium
corollæ inserta. Stigma concavum, declinatum. Nux quadrilocularis.

BLOSSOM one petal; tube hairy at the mouth. Chives inserted into the
middle of the blossom. Summit concave, declined. Nut four-celled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pogonia foliis eliptico-lanceolatis, glabris; floribus pendulis,
minutis, albis.

Pogonia with leaves eliptically lance-shaped, smooth; flowers hanging
down, small and white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, magnified.

2. A Blossom cut open, with the Chives in their place.

3. A Chive, magnified.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, natural size.

5. The same magnified.


This plant from New Holland, is rather more delicate than most of those
we possess from that country; as it is apt to lose its leaves if exposed
either to damps, or much cold. It was first raised in the year 1790, by
the late Mr. Robertson, of Stockwell; is easily propagated by cuttings,
and flowers in January, or February. The other species figured in this
work, Plate 212, and our present plant, are the only two yet known of
this genus. They require a very light sandy loam, or peat soil, to make
them flourish. The P. glabra does not grow more than three feet high and
flowers the first year from cuttings. Our figure was taken at the
Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXIV.

CHIOCOCCA RACEMOSA.

_Opposite-leaved Snowberry-tree._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquedentatum, superum, persistens.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus longus, patens; limbus
quinquepartitus; laciniis æqualibus, acutis, reflexis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, filiformia, longitudine corollæ. Antheræ
oblongæ, erectæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, subrotundum, compressum. Stylus filiformis,
longitudine staminum. Stigma simplex, obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca subrotunda, compressa, coronata calyce, bilocularis.

SEMINA duo, subrotunda, compressa, distantia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-toothed, above and remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube long, spreading; border five
divided; segments equal, pointed and reflexed.

CHIVES. Five threads, hair-like, the length of the blossom. Tips oblong,
upright.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, roundish, flattened. Shaft thread-shaped, the
length of the chives. Summit simple, blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. A roundish berry, flattened, crowned with the permanent
cup, two-celled.

SEEDS two, roundish, flattened, and at a distance from each other.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Chiococca foliis oppositis, ovatis, acuminatis; ramis horizontalibus;
floribus racemosis, pendulis.

Snowberry-tree with opposite leaves, egg-shaped, tapered; branches grow
horizontal; flowers grow in bunches hanging down.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. A Flower.

4. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

5. The same magnified.


The Snowberry-tree is a native of Jamaica, and some of the other West
India islands; requiring the temperature of the hothouse to preserve it;
growing to the height of four or five feet; but the stem being too weak
to support itself, must be assisted. It is propagated by cuttings, and
delights in a rich soil. We are informed in Miller’s Dictionary,
treating of this plant, that it was introduced to us, in the year 1729,
by Mr. Warner, of London; and that it was cultivated, in the garden of
Mr. Sherard, at Eltham, about that time. The root of this plant is used
medicinally, and has a very bitter, acrid taste. It is a very free
blowing plant, flowering the first year from the cuttings; but never
produces its fine white berries in this country, which constitute its
greatest beauty, and whence its generic title. Our figure was made from
a plant in the Hammersmith Collection. Flowers in September.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXV.

FERRARIA VIRIDIFLORA.

_Green-flowered Ferraria._


CLASS XVI. ORDER I.

_MONADELPHIA TRIANDRIA._ Threads united. Three Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Spathæ unifloræ.

PETALA sex, undulato-crispata. Stigmata cucullata. Capsula 3-locularis,
infera.

ONE POINTAL. Sheaths one-flowered.

PETALS six, waved and crisped. Summits cowled. Capsule three-celled
beneath.

See FERRARIA PAVONIA, Pl. CLXXVIII. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Ferraria foliis distichis, vaginantibus, costatis; petalis lanceolatis
æqualibus, interioribus immaculatis, angustioribus, virescentibus.

Ferraria with leaves pointing opposite ways sheathing the stem and
ribbed; petals lance-shaped, equal, the inner ones without spots,
narrower and greenish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Seed-bud, Chives and Pointal.

2. One of the Chives, a little magnified, as seen from the inside.

3. The same seen from the outside.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits, the Chives removed.

5. One of the Summits magnified.


Our figure represents the Moræa Ferrariola of Jacquin’s Collectanea 4.
p. 141; but, as we conceive Ferraria a good, and distinct genus, we have
not followed either him, or Thunberg, who has likewise thrown these
plants to Moræa. At first sight we did not think this plant possessed of
sufficient distinctive character to be treated as a different species
from the F. undulata; but upon closer inspection found it to vary nearly
in every part; in the shape of the flower, the leaves and the root. The
singular character of this, and the other Cape Ferrarias, of making but
one growth in two, and sometimes three years; is hardly to be traced in
any other plants, but constantly so in these. They produce their flowers
about July, the season of their flowering; the flowers are as transitory
as those of the F. pavonia; that is to say, the duration of about six
hours. Our figure was taken from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection,
which flowered in the month of July 1802. The Ferrarias all propagate by
the root; and should be planted in sandy peat mixed with a small portion
of loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXVI.

HIBISCUS PATERSONIUS.

_Norfolk Island Hibiscus._


CLASS XVI. ORDER VI.

_MONADELPHIA POLYANDRIA._ Threads united. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX duplex; exterior polyphyllus. Stigmata 5. Capsula 5-locularis,
polysperma.

EMPALEMENT double; outer one many-leaved. Five Summits. Capsule
five-celled, many-seeded.

See HIBISCUS MUTABILIS, Pl. CCXXVIII. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hibiscus foliis acuminato-lanceolatis, coriaceis, supra punctatis,
subtus tomentosis: floribus axillaribus; calycibus monophyllis,
quinquedentatis.

Hibiscus with tapering lance-shaped leaves, leathery, dotted above and
downy underneath; flowers grow from the insertion of the leaves; cups
one-leaved, five-toothed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup with its foot-stalk.

2. The columnar part of the Chives cut open, the pointal taken away.

3. The Pointal.

4. A skinny membrane, which surrounds the seed-bud at the base.

5. A ripe capsule, with the enlarged cup attached.

6. The same, cut through the middle horizontally.

7. A ripe seed.


The Norfolk Island Hibiscus is a tender greenhouse plant; was introduced
to Britain, in the year 1792, having been raised from seeds communicated
by Col. Paterson, then stationed on that Island. It attains the height
of 13 feet, or more, becoming a small tree; may be increased readily
from cuttings, and should be planted in a mixture of loam and sandy
peat. Our figure is from a specimen received from the Right Hon. Lord
Viscount Courtenay, in whose collection at Powderham, near Exeter, it
flowered for the first time in the year 1800; and where also the seeds
ripened.

We have no doubt but this plant belongs to the Genus Lagunæa, of
Schreber; but as he proposes himself, and as L’Heritier as justly
observes, the simplicity of the cup is not a sufficient ground, on which
to found a new genus; so we have rather given our present subject, the
name under which it is in general known, than adopt a title for it which
is acknowledged by the author, as rather unwarrantable.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXVII.

STYPHELIA PARVIFLORA.

_Small-flowered Styphelia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX imbricatus. Corolla tubulosa.

STAMINA fauci inserta. Drupa quinquelocularis. Semina bina.

EMPALEMENT tiled. Blossom tubular.

CHIVES inserted into the mouth of the blossom. A five celled berry.
Seeds by twos.

See STYPHELIA TRIFLORA, Pl. LXXII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Styphelia foliis lanceolatis, oppositis; floribus capitatis
terminalibus; corollis minutis, albis.

Styphelia with lance-shaped, opposite leaves; flowers terminate the
branches in heads; blossom small and white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement magnified.

2. A Flower, natural size.

3. The same, magnified.

4. A Blossom, cut open, with the Chives attached.

5. The Pointal, natural size.

6. The same, magnified.


This Styphelia, as are all the known species of the genus, is a native
of New Holland, and was amongst the first plants which were raised from
seeds from that country. It is a hardy greenhouse plant; grows very
bushy, handsome in its foliage, and seldom exceeds two feet in height.
It is propagated by cuttings, made from the tender shoots, about the
month of April; and treated as directed for other plants natives of the
same clime. Should be planted in sandy peat earth.

Our figure was taken from a specimen communicated by Mr. Cuff, from his
select collection at Teddington, Middlesex; where it flowered, we
believe, for the first time in England, last year, in the month of
August, 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCLXXXVIII.

PROTEA CYNAROIDES.

_Artichoke-like-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA quadrifida seu quadripetala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus.

SEMINA solitaria.

BLOSSOM four-cleft or four petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Empalement proper none.

SEEDS solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis suborbiculatis, glaberrimis; petiolis longissimis;
squamulis calycinis lanceolatis, apice carinatis.

Protea with nearly orbicular leaves, and very smooth; footstalks very
long; scales of the cup lance-shaped, keeled at the point.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret spread open, with the Chives in their places.

2. The Pointal and Seed-bud.


To the Right Hon. the Earl of Coventry we are indebted for the figure of
this superb plant; it having flowered in his Lordship’s rich, and
extensive collection at Croome, Worcestershire, this present February,
1803, for the first time, in England; his Lordship did us the favour to
order the flower to be cut, and sent to London; where it arrived,
without the least injury, and continued in perfection many days.

The magnificence of this species of Protea, can be but poorly expressed
within the limited bounds of our publication; we have, nevertheless,
endeavoured to do it all the justice within our grasp. A considerable
part of the lustre of the flower is lost, from the small portion of the
leaves which could be introduced; as the contrasted beauty of the fine
broad shining leaves, which form, as it were, a nidus, or ground wood
for the blossom, contribute, so much, to heighten the beauty of the
whole.

The Protea cynaroides is a hardy greenhouse plant, was introduced to
Britain, in 1792, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, from the Cape
of Good Hope. May be increased by cuttings, taken off the lower part of
the plant; where they shoot out in clusters to the length of an inch or
more, and must be treated as has already been directed for Proteas in
general. The plant, even at the Cape, seldom grows higher than 18
inches, or two feet.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. III.


Plate 145  Hillia longiflora
                    | Long-flowered Hillia
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | February.
      146  Psoralea aculeata
                    | Prickly Psoralea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      147  Gladiolus cuspidatus
                    | Spear-spotted Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      148  Lachenalia quadricolor
                    | Four-coloured Lachenalia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | December.
      149  Struthiola ciliata
                    | Fringed-leaved Struthiola
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      150  Geranium præmorsum
                    | Bitten-leaved Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      151  Pittosporum coriaceum
                    | Thick-leaved Pittosporum
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      152  Geranium spathulatum
                    | Spathula-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      153  Viola pedata
                    | Bird’s-foot-leaved Violet
                    | Har.
                    | Herb.
                    | May.
      154  Echium argenteum
                    | Silvery-leaved Viper’s Bugloss
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      155  Ixia polystachia
                    | Many-spiked Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      156  Banksia ericæfolia
                    | Heath-leaved Banksia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      157  Cordia Sebestena
                    | Rough-leaved Cordia
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      158  Geranium echinatum
                    | Prickly-stalked Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      159  Ixia capitata,
            _Var. flo. albo, fundo nigro_

                    | Bunch-flowering Ixia.
                      _Var. white fl. black bottom_
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      160  Aristea major
                    | Spike-flowered Aristea
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      161  Hermannia pulverata
                    | Powdered Hermannia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      162  Verbascum ferrugineum
                    | Rusty-flowered Mullein
                    | H. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | April.
      163  Amaryllis Fothergillia
                    | Fothergillian Lily-Daffodil
                    | H. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      164  Galaxia grandiflora
                    | Large-flowered Galaxia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | February.
      165  Echium glaucophyllum
                    | Sea-green-leaved Viper’s-Bugloss
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      166  Gladiolus abreviatus
                    | Shortened-petalled Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | March.
      167  Brunsfelsia undulata
                    | Waved-flowered Brunsfelsia
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      168  Geranium pictum
                    | Painted-flowered Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      169  Crinum giganteum
                    | Gigantic Asphodell-Lily
                    | H. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | August.
      170  Ixia Bulbocodium
             _Var. fl. speciosissimo_
                    | Crocus-leaved Ixia.
                       _Var. most beautiful flower_
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | March.
      171  Hypoxis linearis
                    | Linear-leaved Hypoxis
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | March.
      172  Anemone palmata
                    | Cyclamen-leaved Portugal Anemone
                    | Har.
                    | Herb.
                    | May.
      173  Geranium roseum
                    | Rosy Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      174  Antholyza tubulosa
                    | Tubular Antholyza
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      175  Melaleuca ericæfolia
                    | Heath-leaved Melaleuca
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      176  Cratæva Capparoides
                    | Caper-like Cratæva
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      177  Ixia punctata
                    | Dotted-flowered Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      178  Ferraria pavonia
                    | Mexican Ferraria
                    | H. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      179  Amaryllis reticulata
                    | Netted-flowered Lily-Daffodil
                    | H. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      180  Atragene austriaca
                    | Austrian Atragene
                    | Har.
                    | Herb.
                    | May.
      181  Vaccinium virgatum
                    | Green-twigged Whortle-berry
                    | Har.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      182  Malva divaricata
                    | Straddling-branched Mallow
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      183  Gardenia tubiflora
                    | Tube-flowered Gardenia
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      184  Pergularia minor
                    | Smaller West-Coast Creeper
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      185  Pergularia odoratissima
                    | Sweet Pergularia, or Chinese Creeper
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      186  Ixia speciosa
                    | Deep Crimson Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      187  Echites suberecta
                    | Oval-leaved Echites
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      188  Gladiolus campanulatus
                    | Bell-flowered Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      189  Zinnia verticillata
                    | Double Zinnia
                    | Har.
                    | Ann.
                    | August.
      190  Geranium astragalifolium
                    | Astragalus-leaved Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      191  Platylobium scolopendrum
                    | Scolopendra-like-stemmed Platylobium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      192  Antholyza fulgens
                    | Refulgent-flowered Antholyza
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      193  Geranium lineare
                    | Linear-petalled Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      194  Hemerocallis alba
                    | White Day-Lily
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | August.
      195  Hypoxis obliqua
                    | Oblique-leaved Hypoxis
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | June.
      196  Ixia maculata
                    | Spotted-flowered Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      197  Nymphæa cærulea
                    | Blue Water-Lily
                    | G. H.
                    | Aqua.
                    | July.
      198  Bauera rubioides
                    | Three-leaved Bauera
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      199  Camellia japonica.
             _Var. fl. rub. pleno_
                    | Double Red Camellia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | January.
      200  Melaleuca hypericifolia
                    | St. John’s-wort-leaved Melaleuca
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      201  Aizoon canariense
                    | Purslane-leaved Aizoon
                    | H. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      202  Samyda serrulata
                    | Sawed-leaved Samyda
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      203  Ixia columnaris
                    | Columnar-chived Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      204  Geranium laciniatum.
             _Var. flo. purp._
                    | Ragged-leaved Geranium. _Purp. fl. Var._
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      205  Platylobium lanceolatum
                    | Lance-shaped-leaved Flat-Pea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | November.
      206  Dracæna borealis
                    | Oval-leaved Dracæna
                    | Har.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      207  Mimosa longifolia
                    | Long-leaved Mimosa
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      208  Lasiopetalum ferrugineum
                    | Rusty Woolly-blossom
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      209  Geranium melananthum
                    | Black-flowered Geranium
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      210  Antholyza Æthiopica
                    | Broad-leaved Antholyza
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      211  Ixia columnaris. _Var. versicolor_
                    | Columnar-chived Ixia. _Changeable fl. Var._| G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      212  Pogonia debilis
                    | Twining Pogonia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      213  Ixia columnaris. _Var. latifolia_
                    | Columnar-chived Ixia. _Broad-leaved Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      214  Westeringia rosmarinacea
                    | Rosemary-like Westeringia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      215  Embothryum salignum
                    | Willow-like Embothryum
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      216  Epidendrum sinense
                    | Chinese Epidendrum
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.




ERRATA.


Plate 153, Order, dele _polygamia_.
      163, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, genetalibus, lege, _genitalibus_.
      171, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, longiore, lege, _longior_.
      175, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, enerviis, lege, _enervis_.
           Ref. lin. 1, for, one which, read, _one of which_.
      184, Gen. Ch. Nect. lin. 1, exterium, lege,
            _exterius_. Lin. 4, interium, lege, _interius_.
      188, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, longior, lege, _longiore_.
      189, Sp. Ch. lin. 1, for, without, read, _with_.
      191, Gen. Ch. Stam. lin. 3, assurentia, lege, _assurgentia_.
      197, Gen. Ch. Corol. lin. 1, quindecem, lege, _quindecim_.
      200, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, uninerviis, lege, _uninervis_.
      202, Gen. Ch. Stam. lin. 2, octodecem, lege, _octodecim_.
      206, Order, for Pointals, read, _Pointal_.
             Gen. Ch. Pist. lin. 2, staminium, lege, _staminum_.
      207, Sp. Ch. lin. 1, post, integris, ins. (,)
      210, Sp. Ch. lin. 2, corolla, lege, _corollæ_.




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. IV.



Plate 217  Passiflora maliformis
                    | Apple-fruited Passion-flower
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      218  Embothrium buxifolium
                    | Box-leaved Embothrium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      219  Gladiolus cuspidatus, _Var. petalis crispis_
                    | Spear-spotted Gladiolus, _V. with crisped petals_
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      220  Massonia scabra
                    | Rough-leaved Massonia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | March.
      221  Wurmbea capensis, _Var. β_
                    | Cape Wurmbea, _Var. 2_
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      222  Geranium radiatum
                    | Rayed-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      223  Clusia flava
                    | Yellow-flowered Balsam-tree
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      224  Geranium reflexum
                    | Reflexed-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      225  Gnidia oppositifolia
                    | Opposite-leaved Gnidia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      226  Magnolia pumila
                    | Dwarf Magnolia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      227  Gladiolus ringens, _Var. multiflorus_
                    | Gaping Gladiolus, _many flowered Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      228  Hibiscus mutabilis, _Var. flore pleno_
                    | Changeable-rose Hibiscus, _Double-flow. Var._
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | November.
      229  Magnolia fuscata
                    | Brown-stemed Magnolia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | April.
      230  Dodonæa triquetra
                    | Three-sided Dodonæa
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      231  Cerbera Ahouai
                    | Oval-leaved Cerbera
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      232  Ixia capitata, _Var. stellata_
                    | Bunch-flowering Ixia, _Star-flowered Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      233  Melanthium viride
                    | Green-flowered Melanthium
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      234  Protea spicata
                    | Spike-flowered Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      235  Mimosa discolor
                    | Two-coloured-leaved Mimosa
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      236  Hypoxis stellata, _Var. flore albo_
                    | Star-flowered Hypoxis, _White Variety_
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | April.
      237  Cytisus tomentosus
                    | Down-leaved Cytisus
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      238  Roëlla decurrens
                    | Decurrent-leaved Roella
                    | G. H.
                    | Ann.
                    | August.
      239  Geranium selinum
                    | Rock-parsley-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | June.
      240  Gladiolus carneus
                    | Flesh-coloured Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      241  Gladiolus orchidiflorus
                    | Orchis-like-flowered Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | March.
      242  Xeranthemum fasciculatum
                    | Bundled-leaved Everlasting-flower
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      243  Protea lagopus
                    | Woolly-leaved Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      244  Hemerocallis graminea
                    | Grass-leaved Day-Lily
                    | Har.
                    | Herb.
                    | June.
      245  Ixia pusilla
                    | Dwarf-blue Ixia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | April.
      246  Geranium incrassatum
                    | Fleshy-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      247  Geranium ciliatum
                    | Fringed-leaved Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      248  Protea umbellata
                    | Umbellated Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      249  Pitcairnia sulphurea
                    | Sulphur-coloured Pitcairnia
                    | H. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | April.
      250  Ixia columnaris, _Var. grandiflora_
                    | Columnar-chived Ixia, _Large-flowered Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      251  Lachenalia purpureo-cærulea
                    | Sweet violet-coloured Lachenalia
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | April.
      252  Hebenstreitia aurea
                    | Golden-flowered Hebenstreitia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      253  Talinum patens
                    | Panicled Purslane
                    | H. H.
                    | Ann.
                    | August.
      254  Geranium procumbens
                    | Procumbent Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      255  Moræa Northiana
                    | Northian Moræa
                    | H. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      256  Ixia maculata, _Var. minor, flo. purpureo_
                    | Spotted-flowered Ixia, _Small Var. purp. flo._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      257  Falkia repens
                    | Creeping Falkia
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | August.
      258  Banksia præmorsa
                    | Bitten-ended-leaved Banksia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      259  Geranium pilosum
                    | Hairy Geranium
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      260  Ornithogalum odoratum
                    | Sweet-scented Star of Bethlehem
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      261  Cameraria latifolia
                    | Bastard Mangeneel
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      262  Xeranthemum spirale
                    | Spiral-leaved Everlasting-flower
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      263  Vaccinium staminium
                    | Green-wooded Whortle-berry
                    | Har.
                    | Shrub.
                    | June.
      264  Protea glomerata
                    | Woolly-headed Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      265  Cyrtanthus obliqua
                    | Oblique-leaved Cyrtanthus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      266  Platylobium ovatum
                    | Oval-leaved Flat-Pea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      267  Jatropha panduræfolia
                    | Fiddle-leaved Physic-Nut
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      268  Gladiolus plicatus
                    | Plaited-leaved Gladiolus
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | May.
      269  Geranium laciniatum, _Var. bicolor_
                    | Ragged-leaved Geranium, _Two-coloured-flower Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      270  Protea pulchella
                    | Waved-leaved Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | September.
      271  Asclepias gigantea
                    | Gigantic Swallow-wort
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      272  Embothrium lineare
                    | Narrow-leaved Embothrium
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      273  Lobelia pinifolia
                    | Pine-leaved Lobelia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      274  Ornithogalum lacteum
                    | Large White-flowered Star of Bethlehem
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      275  Gladiolus ringens, _Var. undulatus_
                    | Gaping-flowered Gladiolus, _Waved-flowered Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | June.
      276  Monsonia filia
                    | Hairy-leaved Monsonia
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      277  Protea speciosa, _Var. foliis glabris_
                    | Smooth-leaved shewy Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | October.
      278  Melaleuca coronata
                    | Flax-leaved Melaleuca
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      279  Xeranthemum fasciculatum, _Var. fl. al._
                    | Bundle-leaved Everlasting-flower, _White Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      280  Persoonia latifolia
                    | Broad-leaved Persoonia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | November.
      281  Metrosidera hirsuta
                    | Hairy Metrosidera
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | November.
      282  Geranium spathulatum, _Var. curviflo._
                    | Spatula-leaved Geranium, _Curled-flo. Var._
                    | G. H.
                    | Herb.
                    | July.
      283  Pogonia glabra
                    | Smooth-leaved Pogonia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | March.
      284  Chiococca racemosa
                    | Opposite-leaved Snowberry-tree
                    | H. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | July.
      285  Ferraria viridiflora
                    | Green-flowered Ferraria
                    | G. H.
                    | Bulb.
                    | July.
      286  Hibiscus Patersonius
                    | Norfolk Island Hibiscus
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | August.
      287  Styphelia parviflora
                    | Small-flowered Styphelia
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | May.
      288  Protea cynaroides
                    | Artichoke-like-flowered Protea
                    | G. H.
                    | Shrub.
                    | January.




ERRATA.


Plate 217, Passiflora maliformis. For Plate CCVII, put, CCXVII.
      218, To No. 1 and 2 of the reference to the plate, add, _magnified_.
      226, Gen. Char. Chives, line 4, for, fixed on side, read,
            _fixed on each side_.
      233, For, Order I, read, Order III, for monygynia, read,
            _trigyma_, and for One Pointal,
                  read, Three Pointals.  Blossom, after claws put a comma.
      235, English name.  For, two coloured leaved, read,
            _two-coloured-leaved_.
      243, Char. Spec, line 2, dele (,) post _longitudine_.
      257, Gen. Char. Pist. Pro Germen, lege, _Germina_.
      270, Specific Char, line 3, for flower head, read, _flower-head_.
      276, Gen. Char. Corolla. Post obovata pone comma.
      282, Geranium spathulatum, for, Plate CCLXX, put, CCLXXXII.
